Who We Serve Private equity firms and corporations in multiple sectors. What We Do Create value and accelerate growth through our data-driven diligence, consulting, and advisory services. How We’re Different Fast, actionable answers and insights delivered with data and transparency. Social Responsibility Applying our consulting and investment advisory skills to deliver outsized community impact. Fast. Actionable. Intensely Data-driven . It’s a different approach to strategic consulting. At Stax, we provide clients with answers to big questions quickly. For more than 20 years, Stax has helped corporations, private equity firms, and NGO’s identify and assess opportunities, quantify value, and accelerate growth. “Actionable, don’t lose that.” — CEO, Multi-Billion Dollar Corporation “We pride ourselves on a culture of open debate and dialog when it comes to our client work, and to the future direction of the firm.” — Mark Bremer, President CAREERS Stax is always looking for more high-caliber individuals who are interested in delivering great work and taking on leadership roles. At Stax, we expect our consultants to take the initiative in researching, analyzing, and discussing solutions, and we reward success with opportunities for career growth. We believe that the give-and-take of open and respectful debate is key to delivering meaningful results to our clients and for growth of the next generation leaders in the firm. ArticlesWorking at Stax  /  Working at Stax Working at Stax, you’ll be on high-profile, fast-paced projects surrounding key issues of growth, profit improvement, and long-term sustainability. You’ll be a part of the team within Stax as well as working directly with clients ranging from Fortune 500 to mid-market companies, including half of the top 20 generalist private equity firms globally, and their portfolio companies. Everyone at Stax has open access to the leadership, and an open invitation to suggest better ways of doing things. We want people who think about how to apply new technologies or techniques to produce better results, not only for client engagements but also internally. Strong research, inspired insights, client engagement, and hard work are rewarded over rank and conventional wisdom. At Stax each team member is a valued and key component of our growing company. Your work will have a direct impact, and your contribution will be noticed. We expect our consultants to take the lead on research, analysis, and debate that leads to insightful answers. We never let egos get in the way of delivering meaningful results to our clients. The give-and-take of open and respectful debate is the cornerstone of solid work and ultimate success. We invest in opportunities for consultants to stretch and grow across function, including participation in growing client relationships and developing new client relationships. We believe that providing these opportunities for long-term career growth — far ahead of the industry norms — provides unique pathways for people who enjoy and excel at consulting, and are impatient about personal growth. We also think it’s smart business, contributing to Stax’s long-term growth and adding to our great team. Related ArticlesExpertise With more than two decades of deep, broad industry experience, Stax can navigate industry specifics quickly. We ask the right questions, clearly frame the important issues, analyze substantial and relevant data, and provide the meaningful answers you need to make key decisions. These are some of the key industries in which we’ve generated fresh insights to keep our clients ahead of the curve: “Stax provided value in week one, and clearly breached the wall at our firm.” — Leading Tech LBO firmAnalytics Stax matches big data with practical application to identify insight and develop ROI analyses. Sometimes clients ask Stax to determine why something is happening in their overall performance. Other times, they want to see if they can be better at targeting and generating insights themselves. No matter the task, Stax doesn’t believe in black boxes. We work with clients to help them understand the methodology, strengths, and limitations. In some cases, we transfer the knowledge of the engagement and the operation of analytical models directly to clients. In other cases, clients ask us to periodically update analytic models for ongoing management and operational decisions. What We Do Adaptive Methodologies and Custom Models  – Stax employs a wide range of approaches to accommodate the most demanding analytical and data processing requirements. We can also create entirely new models and algorithms to solve for any given question and opportunity. In many cases, our engagements include mining client data for insights and furthering the insights by combining it with purchased and new primary research. This enables us to generate proprietary insights that can look at what happened in the past, as well as help forecast what should happen. Customer Value Optimization  – Stax analyzes customer transactional data to identify drivers of customer loyalty and satisfaction. We quantify the lifetime value of a customer, thereby identifying the high-value customers and potential customers to help clients optimize resources. Operational Excellence  – With the rapid increase of business data, it’s becoming even more important to separate the real information from the noise. Stax has the experience to frame the question and extract the raw data from disparate systems to deliver actionable insights for pricing strategy, sales and revenue analysis, operational efficiency, and workforce analysis. Where there’s no data in the systems, we know where to buy it, or how to create new proprietary information using primary research. Capital Allocation for Best-Value Drivers  – Stax helps clients quantify the productivity of working capital and the value of doing some things better or faster. We can also identify where there may be little incremental value, due to the availability of working capital and how investors view return. With evolving business models there are more opportunities to identify where other partners in the value chain, or third-party providers, may offer services at a better cost of capital. This helps management make more informed choices about use of internal versus external resources. Related Articles4 Steps to Winning Insights from Social Media STAX INC  |   Aug. 23 2016 While most companies monitor social media, smart ones are weaving social data with operating metrics to separate noise from value and develop actionable insights. Stax is working with companies to help them derive insights by connecting social conversations with real-world performance. By bringing all these data points together and framing them in the right context, Stax’s work has uncovered illuminating insights for its corporate and investor/board level engagements. The results are enabling management teams to improve operations and help investors evaluate companies. Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Palash Misra crafted an article on how to utilize social insights to fully understand a company’s position in the marketplace and what it needs to do in order to best operate the business. There is a considerable gap between executives who are well-versed in the social data as a strategic asset, and those who have either delegated the results too far away or are too far removed to understand the power that it offers. Social media provides a relatively unedited glimpse into what guests are saying beyond traditional satisfaction scores… Analyzing social media and digital data, and acting on that analysis, is an ongoing process. It is not just a matter of looking at the receipts every day or expecting one week’s worth of data to produce valuable insights or trends. It takes time to collect the data, analyze it, compare it against which areas of the business are and are not successful, make small adjustments and measure the results. You can read the full article in  . MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Tag: Technology According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles. From extraction, to processing, to transportation, the Oil & Gas supply chain is arguably the most complex of any industry. It is challenging for anyone to understand the complex interlinking of infrastructure, equipment, and processes required to bring the mission-critical energy resource into our homes. The same goes for Oil & Gas technology.  From smart cars that are able to drive and park themselves, intelligent thermostats that detect your arrival and turn up the heat, to smart clothing that can track the amount of calories burnt — these are all part of the latest gadgets-gone-gaga trend: the Internet of Things (IoT). Technology is fundamentally changing behavior and power dynamics across the agriculture value chain. Investors in agriculture should look both at how technology is being used to drive value within their own segment of the value chain and at how available technology is driving change across the industry. Executives and investors may be quick to forget, but shoppers are not, and that could impact retailers’ profit and share price. Despite being relatively young, Sri Lanka’s tech startup ecosystem has witnessed tremendous growth over the past few years. Home to world-class human capital, an envious geographical location, an increasingly favorable business climate, and relatively superior infrastructure to other countries in the region, Sri Lanka is well poised to become a thriving startup hub. Speaking with BizReport, Palash Misra discusses trends and the cause of growth in the marketing technology space. In Sri Lanka’s evolving startup space, collective success is predicated on realizing this market rewards novelty, action & differentiation. Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Brett Conradt write about the use of technology in the trucking industry for Fleet Maintenance. Earlier this week, Mary Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley internet analyst and current partner at venture-capital fund Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, released her annual Internet Trends Report. While it’s definitely a voluminous report and well worth the read, there were two key takeaways to highlight. Looking at the changes in personal accountability within an organization — the changing needs of specific customer — is just as important as understanding the theoretical needs of the corporation. 2016 has gotten off to a slow start for dealmakers. The first quarter of the year saw private equity deals overall drop by 30% year-to-date according to PitchBook. While higher valuations have been attributed to driving the volume of deals — specifically in technology — down, that does not mean that competition has slowed.Takeaways from Mary Meeker’s 2016 Internet Trends Report STAX INC  |   Jun. 3 2016  from  Earlier this week, Mary Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley internet analyst and current partner at venture-capital fund Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, released her annual Internet Trends Report. The report (embedded in full above) examines the biggest trends in digital and provides fascinating analysis and data on today’s state of the web. While it’s definitely a voluminous report and well worth the read, there were two key takeaways I’d like to highlight. As Meeker suggests, US auto sales appear to be at a peak. Secular shifts in the auto market may be unfolding with the rise of mobility on demand (e.g., Uber). Millennials do not appear to be embracing the car culture compared to previous generations. Fewer 16 to 24 year-olds are getting their drivers licenses. In 1990, 64% of 16-to-19 year-olds had a driver’s license; compare that to 43% of 16-to-19 year-olds have a driver’s license today. Millennials don’t equate a car with ‘personal freedom’ the same way preceding generations do (millennials have phones/portable devices and access to social network that enable them to express their freedom in similar ways). Fast forward, and you have reasonable proof that an entire generation will be less likely to buy cars. High costs and inefficiency give way to ride sharing and on-demand mobility. Current and emerging auto/auto services companies need to align to themselves to these shifts. In retail, personalization and seamless shopping experiences are key. Retailers taking a unified approach to optimizing the shopping experience, have the opportunity to engage millennials, drive purchases and build loyalty. One key source of assessing alignment with consumers’ needs are user generated content (UGC). Through our own research, we are learning that user generated content via social media sentiment or engagement is not only an indicator of company success but there is a predictive relationship between consumer ratings, positive blog sentiment and firm equity value/returns. To that end, monitoring the feedback via UGC is a key element of alignment with current and emerging customer needs. , Stax Inc. Palash Misra is a Director at Stax Inc. Throughout his career, Misra has advised portfolio managers on competitive analysis and growth strategies to achieve profit improvement across multiple industries. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Tag: Stax Asia A family business is like a double-edged sword. Driven by emotion, these organizations have a deeper purpose beyond the nuts and bolts of business—they are full of soul. From smart cars that are able to drive and park themselves, intelligent thermostats that detect your arrival and turn up the heat, to smart clothing that can track the amount of calories burnt — these are all part of the latest gadgets-gone-gaga trend: the Internet of Things (IoT). Despite being relatively young, Sri Lanka’s tech startup ecosystem has witnessed tremendous growth over the past few years. Home to world-class human capital, an envious geographical location, an increasingly favorable business climate, and relatively superior infrastructure to other countries in the region, Sri Lanka is well poised to become a thriving startup hub. In Sri Lanka’s evolving startup space, collective success is predicated on realizing this market rewards novelty, action & differentiation. The flow of patients across borders in pursuit of health and wellness is an age-old phenomenon. From the ancient Greeks who journeyed to Epidauria seeking the healing deity Asclepius to modern healthcare consumers with their calibrated itineraries combining both medical treatment and leisure, medical tourism has been a feature of the ages. The industry has, however, gained special traction in the 21st century. Today, ever increasing numbers travel internationally for medical treatment, driven by the promise of quality care at an affordable price. Historically, per capita healthcare spend by Asian countries has been minuscule compared to that of mega-spenders like the U.S. or Norway. However, with an aging population, rising affluence, and demand for better health services in Asia, healthcare expenditure growth in the APAC region is set to outstrip North America’s.Surveys Don’t Drive Insights:  A Thorough and Informed Process Drives Insights STAX INC  |   Jun. 21 2017 A survey is a great tool that helps companies better understand consumers and develop a wide range of analyses. A common misconception is that surveys drive insights. With numerous free survey services available and a growing set of panel providers, it’s easy to think that a simple input will yield a great output. For the output to be accurate and useful, there’s much more that goes into a survey. The setup and process of a survey — from design and sampling to team buy in to data review and analysis — are all critical to achieving successful outcomes. How critical is the setup and process? That all depends on how important it is to get the answers right or not. Because it can appear so easy and isn’t, it’s worth explain what goes into making them valuable. As part of our consulting work at Stax, we frequently field surveys to support our commercial due diligence and corporate strategy engagements. But surveys are just one of many tools. Over the past 20 years, Stax has conducted thousands of consumer and B2B engagements, gathering exponentially vast sets of data points. Based on this experience, we have identified vital components to develop a survey and deliver in-depth, actionable insights very quickly. Preliminary Research Prior to Questionnaire Design  — To ask relevant questions, the research team needs to have knowledge about the company or customers, products/services, competition, and industry dynamics. Survey designers should use a mixture of industry research, online content and social media reviews, and a few in-depth interviews targeting select consumers and experts to refine and confirm the initial research hypothesis. At Stax, we pair secondary research teams and industry knowledgeable consultants with our dedicated survey team to prepare for client discussions. Teaming with Your Client —  You need to engage with your team and client about what’s the need to know, nice to know, and what would be actionable. Are we trying to find out why something is happening (using open ended questioning)? Or are we trying to quantify solutions (options for a price/value package)? Who is involved, what can be acted upon if we find answer X, Y, or Z, and what are the nuances we need to take into account? Are there any specific relevant data points regarding the target company or market that need to be addressed or can contribute to a better-refined survey instrument? Questionnaire Design  — Survey questions should be clear, concise and tied directly to the objectives of the engagement. The questions should be framed in a format that can provide the most meaningful insights while limiting respondent fatigue. A set of screening and qualifying questions should be included to limit participation to only relevant respondents and filter out individuals who do not meet the necessary requirements. Branching and skip logic should be utilized to ensure that respondents are only seeing relevant questions and no unnecessary screens. More interactive question types such as maximum difference scaling or choice-based conjoint analysis can also be deployed to generate more statistically accurate insights. Sample Plan & Design  — It is important to ensure that the sample used for analysis is representative of the target population and limits sample bias — because there is always some bias. It is possible to oversample specific segments after a representative sample is established. This is done to acquire more detailed data using separate/distinct surveys with specific questions in order to prioritize data quality relative to top questions. Survey Monitoring and Results  — Once the data is collected, inconsistent data points from the sample should be removed by researchers to verify the quality of responses. This includes identifying and eliminating professional survey takers who are often paid for their answers, as well as inattentive and/or inconsistent responses. At Stax, we developed a methodology and process to mitigate the influence of professional survey takers. Iterations  — You need time to review results, think and discuss. A common opportunity is deeper dives into interesting observations. Researchers can also segment respondents into natural groupings and conduct targeted analysis to uncover more valuable insights. Surveys are an extraordinarily valuable tool for generating deep customer insights quickly. They work as standalone efforts and even better when integrated with macro data, externally generated data and internally generated data. Like all good things, a little process and preparation helps you go faster and deeper to generate insights. By understanding that the entire process is what generates insights and not just the survey itself, you’ll ensure the output is meaningful and impactful. , Stax Inc. Indika Jayasinghe is a Manager at Stax Inc., where he leads the Consumer Insights Team, consulting for more than 50 “Voice of Customer” Engagements per year. , Stax Inc. Roy Lockhart is a Manager at Stax Inc., where he has engaged in over 100+ projects during his tenure. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Tag: Consumer & Retail Stax Director Palash Misra recently shared insights with NBC News on why millennial shoppers are flocking to discount and off-price retailers and how these stores are capitalizing on millennials’ needs. Executives and investors may be quick to forget, but shoppers are not, and that could impact retailers’ profit and share price. Understanding customer decision making is crucial to profitable growth, and particularly so in driving product development or sales and marketing investment decisions. Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Palash Misra crafted an article on how to utilize social insights to fully understand a company’s position in the marketplace and what it needs to do in order to best operate the business. At Stax, we like wine, we like data, and we like identifying value. There’s a little history here — Stax’s first commercial office in 1997 (after moving out of Rafi’s basement) was above Libby’s liquor store in Central Square, Cambridge. Champagne and sparkling wines have long been considered a staple of celebratory occasions and a great gift on those occasions. For some people this creates a chance to wheel out their expertise and for others it creates angst, wondering what tastes best and what will make the right impression. Unfortunately, we’ve been trained to think about quality in terms of price, deciding based largely on “what’s the right amount to spend?”Openings  /  Openings Join us We are looking for people who are prepared to step up and seize the opportunities before them. As our company continues to grow, you will be given the chance to make your mark in expanding our capabilities and in the development of the firm. Your work will have a direct impact and receive high visibility. We are hiring for consulting and data analytics positions across our offices. Interested candidates should submit an online application to their location of interest.Healthcare  / 
					 Healthcare Stax works throughout the healthcare ecosystem, with deep experience in all its major sectors. We create clarity and actionable insights in a complex and changing industry, providing advice to corporations and private equity on growth and M&A, changing market dynamics, reimbursement trends, and operational improvements. We are passionate about better health and healthcare, and help our clients uncover high-value opportunities that improve patient outcomes as well as the bottom line. Types of Engagements Identifying and prioritizing growth opportunities Resource allocation and optimization Assessing markets, customers, segments, competition, modeling and forecasting volumes, insurance flows, and payor mix New market and go-to-market strategy formulation Product maturity and whitespace analysis; innovation, product, and service line development Scenario planning Commercial due diligence Acquisition screening Exit strategy and sale preparation AREAS OF EXPERTISE Macro Trends, Regulation, and Government Spend Payors and Health Plans Commercial plan product/service offerings Federal and state government payment programs Spend cycle and insurance flows Providers and Provider Services Hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers Provider groups (outsourced and clinic-based) Behavioral health Home health and hospice Consumer-oriented health (including eyewear, dental, dermatology, and physical therapy) Lab-based services and diagnostic imaging Non-consumer specialty: veterinary care Patients/Consumers Consumer understanding and patient engagement Retail clinics The “consumerization of healthcare” Information services Wellness Healthcare IT EHR and practice management software Data management and analytics Population health management Information and compliance systems Life Sciences CROs and CMOs Biosimilars and generics Compounding Medical Devices Durable medical equipment Medical supplies Medical devices Related ArticlesStrategy and Growth Stax uses data and information to help companies address their most important growth, strategic, and competitive issues quickly and confidently. For over two decades our team has seen thousands of strategic issues and competitive situations, which enables us to handle any scenario with conviction and speed. We also recognize that management’s time is important. Rather than moving in on-site, we leverage a management team’s time with short on-site visits and use technology whenever possible. It’s an approach that delivers better, faster results for clients. What We Do Growth Strategy  – Stax helps businesses of all types, sizes, and geographies drive organic growth and acquisition. Our services cover the full scope of using data to understand customers, market sizing, and specific opportunities. We also help clients see where they can win market share, expand product lines, optimize pricing, enter market adjacencies, reduce customer churn, and expand into new channels and geographies. Innovation  – Today more than ever, companies must adapt to a quickly changing business landscape, and seek opportunities to innovate and lead. Stax helps companies evolve with changing customer needs and user experiences, adopt best operational practices within the industry, and identify new ideas and potential acquisitions to help position for protection or expansion. We also provide the methodologies to test opportunities and potential risks. M&A  – Stax has tremendous expertise in the M&A arena, with more than 20 years of advising a broad range of strategic, private equity, and public equity investors. Listening to a client’s specific needs, we design an approach to meet their situation and stage in decision making, quickly, using the best methodology and process to provide a trusted fact base that will stand up to the toughest investment committee questions. Related ArticlesEnterprise Technology Sales:  Total Addressable Market or Total Addressable Person? STAX INC  |   May. 27 2016 Looking at the changes in personal accountability within an organization — the changing needs of specific customer — is just as important as understanding the theoretical needs of the corporation.  , CEO of Stax, and and  , Director at Stax, share a few actionable insights from Stax’s work in technology with  . For most solution providers, the individual business units — not the CIO or CFO — represent the new customer within the company. And that customer wants speed, ease and access to their own information. The cloud has created greater flexibility, allowing business units to choose best-of-breed solutions. But the decisions they make are not permanent. For that reason, solution providers must think as much about the individual pain point and allowing the user to be the IT professional as they think about selling a company-wide package. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Consumer and Retail  / 
					 Consumer and Retail Today’s consumer and retail landscape is changing so rapidly and in so many ways that it’s difficult to stay on top of trends, new business models, and threats. You need data and insight to avoid being overtaken, stay competitive, and identify the best growth areas. Data-driven decisions based on insights about customer preferences, behaviors, and experiences are critical for all those companies who make, move, and sell consumer products or services. From emerging brands to multi-billion dollar corporations, Stax leverages primary research, social channel and digital data, and our own proprietary information to quickly identify growth opportunities, boost operating and financial performance, and improve the customer experience. Types of Engagements Assessing consumers' changing needs, behaviors and attitudes, brand perceptions, segmentation, and customer experience Evaluating companies’ expansion efforts including store unit expansion, international expansion, and new product development Gaining competitive insight, assessing competitors, and benchmarking performance Determining store-level performance, key drivers, and what levers should be prioritized to improve performance Evaluating a company’s market strategy, brand positioning, and marketing mix Examining companies’ multi-channel strategy, digital strategy, e-commerce, and social presence and engagement Providing advisory support at every stage of M&A, including acquisition screens, due diligence, identifying operational improvement opportunities, and maximizing sale value at exit AREAS OF EXPERTISE Accessories and Luxury Goods Apparel and Footwear Financial Services (including B2B, commercial & consumer) Auto, home and specialty lending Banking Credit cards Investment products Food and Beverage Health and Beauty Hotels, Resorts, and Leisure Facilities Household Durables Home construction and building products Home furnishings Household appliances Housewares and specialties Internet and E-commerce Leisure Products Bikes Recreational vehicles Sports equipment Toys Restaurants QSR Fast casual Casual Fine dining Retail Department Discount and off-price Specialty Related ArticlesCategory: PRIVATE EQUITY “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework? Deals have become increasingly competitive, with an ever-increasing number of bidders involved in every transaction. From extraction, to processing, to transportation, the Oil & Gas supply chain is arguably the most complex of any industry. It is challenging for anyone to understand the complex interlinking of infrastructure, equipment, and processes required to bring the mission-critical energy resource into our homes. The same goes for Oil & Gas technology.  Surveys are an extraordinarily valuable tool for generating deep customer insights quickly. They work as standalone efforts and even better when integrated with macro data, externally generated data and internally generated data. Like all good things, a little process and preparation helps you go faster and deeper to generate insights. By understanding that the entire process is what generates insights and not just the survey itself, you’ll ensure the output is meaningful and impactful. In today’s environment, what is consulting worth? What is the value of commercial due diligence from a strategy consulting firm? Are consultants worth less or more to private equity investors than they were ten or fifteen years ago? Under what circumstances is consulting worth more, or worth less? At Stax, we can provide quantitative answers to such questions. 2016 has gotten off to a slow start for dealmakers. The first quarter of the year saw private equity deals overall drop by 30% year-to-date according to PitchBook. While higher valuations have been attributed to driving the volume of deals — specifically in technology — down, that does not mean that competition has slowed. We see a lot of companies missing the value at their doorstep — because there’s so much data to pull together from disparate sources and they don’t have the resources to turn that data to insights. And, we see companies struggling under the volume of data, feeling the only answer is to implement a mega-solution that will deliver everything in one dashboard — but that takes years, millions and can be high-risk. Whether you regard time as a steady continuum or stretchable elastic, as Einstein theorized, we all know that time is money. We often see organizations spend a lot of money without saving time, when they could have spent the same money, saved a lot of time and effort, and reached their growth goals much more quickly. What I’ve learned from the last two recessions and working with some of the best investors in the world, is that information is far from perfect, and one can get a huge information advantage, and there is value in learning how to move fast. Whether this market is similar or different for technical reasons, I won’t argue. But there is no do doubt about this: In today’s environment, we can get far more information, far faster, than any of the last go-arounds. Based on 20 years of experience advising on the buy side of commercial due diligence and helping companies increase profits, here are six ways we see to increase exit value. These generally take just four weeks to six months to complete, and most have a significant ROI within three to six months if you choose not to sell.New Business and Investment Opportunities Emerging from Population Health Management STAX INC  |   Nov. 17 2014 Overview 
Healthcare delivery is experiencing transformational change through population health management (PHM). It’s no secret that healthcare spending has grown exponentially, and spending is concentrated, as just 10% of patients account for 66% of healthcare costs. In an attempt to control costs, efforts are underway to identify and manage the most costly patients, and reimbursement arrangements are shifting from volume-based to value-based. These shifts are the underlying themes of PHM, and it’s changing how care is delivered, how providers are incented, and how results are measured.

Providers are aware of the concept of population health management and many have strongly embraced it—including hundreds of major hospitals and health systems across the country which have formed accountable care organizations (ACOs) that typically involve some form of risk-sharing and/or shared-savings arrangements. Yet few are fully prepared to implement population health management. In general, while providers see PHM as the future, they currently lack essential tools and capabilities to prosper in this new environment due to the complexity and novelty of this approach to care delivery.

To assist providers in implementing population health management, an entirely new ecosystem of solution providers is rapidly developing, with emerging companies in areas such as population analytics, provider risk contract management, quality measurement, and patient engagement. To support population health management, we see significant and sustained growth in multiple segments.

This report highlights changes in healthcare delivery taking place, new opportunities that are emerging, and specific segments where growth and consolidation are likely in coming years.
 Introduction to Population Health Management 
Physicians and hospitals are aligning to improve the overall health of populations rather than focusing on individual patients. The emphasis is on better medical outcomes and reduction in costs across the care continuum. Instead of providing more services to earn more through the traditional fee-for-service reimbursement model, providers will be rewarded for quality and cost efficiency, through value-based reimbursement models like capitation, global payment, bundled payment, and shared savings. This evolution is underway, further accelerated by the Affordable Care Act.

Improving the health of populations calls for population health management—a new care model that aims to keep communities of patients healthier through collaboration among providers, reduction in expensive interventions, tests, and hospitalizations, and more active involvement of patients in their own wellness. The PHM approach to care aims to reduce cost of care for the entire population, and ultimately encourage preventative health and optimal clinical outcomes. The concept of “PHM” has been increasingly discussed and implemented over the last several years. Stax defines "Population Health Management" as:
 "A shared-accountability arrangement between healthcare delivery systems wherein providers have financial incentive to manage, measure, and optimize medical outcomes for a designated population at the lowest necessary cost." 
It is well established that a small percentage of the population incurs the bulk of healthcare costs. The U.S. Agency for Healthcare and Research Quality (AHRQ) reported that in 2010 the costliest 10% of the population accounted for 66% of all healthcare expenditures. Population health is an approach that will enable providers to:
 Identify the riskiest patients Control costs through proactive intervention to keep those patients out of expensive emergency care and inpatient settings 
Compensation for providers will no longer be based on each incremental patient service, but rather it will be determined by the clinical outcomes of a defined population. This is generally referred to as the shift from volume-based “fee-for-service” to “value-based” reimbursement. In a "capitated" payment model, a defined lump sum is paid from payer to provider to cover a defined set of healthcare services within a defined population. This is typically a "per member per month" payment.
 Areas of Difference Current Model Future PHM Model Reimbursement model Fee-for-service Capitated Provider financial incentives Volume (more services/care) Value (better outcomes and quality; less services/care) Care Delivery Fragmented Coordinated Technology Environment Late adopters; little use of technology Reliance on technology and analytics to identify patients and improve care coordination Growth of ACOs 
The transition to value-based payment models and the shift of risk from payers to providers has only recently begun to accelerate, but is quickly gaining momentum. According to a 2014 research study across 350 healthcare provider organizations and 114 payers, 81% of providers and 90% of payers are already using some mix of value-based reimbursement combined with fee-for-service. The shift of risk is further evidenced by rapid growth in accountable care organizations (ACOs). From early 2012 to Q3 of 2013, the number of ACOs in the U.S. grew from about 100 to nearly 490. As of late 2013, there were approximately 600 ACOs, covering about 18 million patient lives. Based on our forecasting model, Stax expects the number of ACO covered lives to grow to more than 95 million over the next five years.
 Capabilities for Population Health Management 
Population health management puts considerable pressure on providers to change the way they work together. The complex coordination between providers, patients, payers, and employers—and the critical need for data accessibility and analytics—poses a host of challenges and concerns. Most providers need to add capabilities and are looking at significant investment in order to successfully implement population health.

PHM requires infrastructure and advanced IT systems that were not available 20 years ago. When the concept of capitated payments was introduced in the mid-1990s, capitation efforts were not as successful as intended, largely due to unpreparedness and lack of necessary data and technology required to make the model work. Whereas capitation in the past entailed essentially no more than a contractual agreement, today’s population health management requires fundamental reengineering of the care delivery model. Proactive interventions, care coordination, and patient engagement fueled by data will serve as the foundation of this redesign. Today, healthcare delivery systems have access to better technology, “big data,” and advanced analytics that enable providers to strategically coordinate and provide the right care, at the right time, to reduce costs.
 PHM Stimulates a New Space for Investment 
Rapid growth in an ecosystem of PHM solutions is occurring as a result of the growth in capabilities necessary for health systems to practice PHM. The ability to effectively identify and manage risk requires large-scale pooling and leveraging of electronic health records, insurance claims, and other clinical health-related data. Demand for non-traditional means of providing care will continue to rise (for example, wellness coaching, virtual care, and patient-centered medical homes). Further, advanced analytics capabilities are necessary for providers to mitigate risk, gauge improvements in patient care, and measure financial outcomes.

Stax believes the accelerating growth of ACOs and the overall trend towards population health management will create significant opportunity for population health support solutions, advisory services, and healthcare IT vendors. The market for PHM solutions today is highly fragmented. While there are a number of players in the space, many offer solutions tailored to health plans, as payers have traditionally been the bearers of risk, or niche point solutions for providers. We believe there will be a significant increase in demand for PHM solutions among providers and employers, in addition to payers.
 The Challenges 
Providers are seeking a better understanding of the strategic, tactical, and financial implications of population health management. Based on extensive interviews with C-level and other senior executives within numerous hospitals, healthcare systems, and ACOs nationwide, Stax has identified the top concerns and challenges providers face when implementing (or thinking about implementing) population health management. These issues are common among the majority of providers:
 General lack of understanding of where and how to begin.  Many hospital administrators have deep expertise in patient care but limited knowledge of how to transition from volume-based to value-based care delivery. Providers lack experience caring for populations, let alone managing the risk associated with value-based reimbursements. Lack of internal resources to execute such a major transition.  Hospitals lack the necessary human capital, care management staff, and technology infrastructure. Also, providers lack the budget for PHM, particularly given recent investments in EHR implementation and ICD-10 conversion. Difficulty aggregating, extracting, reporting, and analyzing data.  The fee-for-service reimbursement model does not call for providers to execute perpetual data analysis at the individual patient and population level.  Hospitals lack the infrastructure and human capital to house and extract value from their data; they do not have the tools necessary to operationalize insights and to make data available in clinicians’ daily workflow. Inadequacy of electronic health records (EHRs).  Most EHRs are not designed for PHM or for interoperability with other systems. EHRs often do not contain much information about the care that patients have received outside of a given provider organization. As a result, providers are faced with a challenge of gathering patient-centered data from multiple sources. Issues administering comprehensive, integrated care plans.  With many patients having multiple providers—including primary care, specialty care, hospitals, and post-acute care settings—health systems face challenges in coordinating care: strategically, how to ensure all doctors and caregivers agree on the patient’s care plan; and tactically, how to communicate efficiently and share patient medical records. Lack of tools to engage patients.  There is a lack of adequate resources and technology to effectively and efficiently engage patients in monitoring their own health conditions. Meaningful Use 3 mandates that patients have access to self-management tools (i.e. patient portals); however, the current offerings are not advanced or aggressive enough to stage proactive interventions, requiring more advanced patient engagement solutions. Inability to track cost savings.  Hospital executives want to understand the expected ROI before investing in PHM, but struggle to see how they prove that the cost savings outweighs the investment. Confusion and apprehension when selecting PHM vendors.  Many vendors in this space are relatively new or established vendors launching new products to meet demand for PHM support services. There are no “known commodities,” no dominant players, so it is difficult for providers to feel confident in vendor selection. PHM Solutions 
Solutions have been and are being developed to help providers engage in PHM and overcome the various challenges faced. These solutions range from risk analytics to wellness coaching to strategic advisory services. Stax segments the PHM solutions space into eight distinct but connected categories:
 Data Warehousing & Infrastructure Population Analytics System Performance Analytics & Management Care Coordination & Delivery Cost Analytics & Financial Support Provider Risk Contract Management Quality Measurement, Compliance, & Reporting Patient Engagement & Outreach 

The market for PHM solutions is substantial and growing quickly, with an influx of new entrants. The following are snapshots of PHM capabilities required. Within each segment there is growing demand for third-party solutions and services:
 Data Warehousing & Infrastructure 
For the accountable care movement to succeed where HMOs failed, data integration and improved IT capabilities are vital. Population health management support relies on the ability to establish a data warehousing framework—analytic tools cannot function without it. Infrastructure that aggregates data from disparate systems in a digestible fashion is vital to PHM’s success.
 Population Analytics 
A bulk of healthcare spend is driven by a small portion of the population. To reduce healthcare spend, providers must be able to identify at-risk populations to provide proactive care, especially as providers accept more financial risk. Due to lack of experience in this area, providers need assistance with analytical tools and capabilities that will enable them to identify risky populations. This requires tools that stratify risky populations and provides predictive analytics, with the ultimate goal of cost reduction.
 System Performance Analytics 
Population health initiatives require that providers work together in creating a care network. To establish best practices and benchmark performance, it is important to monitor the organization at both an individual and system level. Providers need assistance and tools to manage their care networks, including utilization metrics, referral management, and efficiency benchmarking.
 Care Coordination & Delivery 
Care coordination is the necessary foundation for population health management. Providers need to collaborate across the care continuum as their bottom line depends on it. That is because payments will become performance-driven, based on reducing costs and improving care quality. This is not an easy task—the alignment of providers requires efficient information sharing. Tools that assist care delivery collaboration, improve workflow, and provide efficient information sharing are vital to population health management.
 Cost Analytics & Financial Support 
Cost reduction is essential for all healthcare systems and organizations. Healthcare providers must now think in terms of value-based payments rather than the traditional fee-for-service model. Tracking the cost of care delivery is now necessary to negotiate risk contracts. Additionally, systems need tools and support solutions to monitor costs and distribute bundled payments across systems or organizations.
 Provider Risk Contract Management 
Providers will continue to accept more financial risk in the future, complicating contractual agreements. Due to a lack of experience entering into risk-based contracts, providers need assistance negotiating and monitoring contracts with payers. These solutions include cost tracking, contract reconciliation, and contract negotiation tools.
 Quality Measurement, Compliance & Reporting 
Participation in ACO programs commonly requires providers to meet and report various quality metrics to receive savings Measurement input and reporting can be a cumbersome process, demanding integration of data from across the care continuum. Solutions that integrate the reporting process into the care workflow and automate reporting will assist compliance and ensure providers are compensated.
 Patient Engagement & Outreach 
To improve population health, patients need to accept increasing responsibility for their wellness. This requires a partnership between providers and patients, where providers encourage patients to take an active role in their health through education, engagement, and outreach tools. By accomplishing this, providers aim to keep populations healthier, reduce readmissions, and improve outcomes. Patient engagement solutions support these efforts, offering the means for providers to connect with patients on an ongoing basis. Providers can leverage a range of tools to support patient engagement including automated high-risk interventions and patient portals that facilitate educational and administrative functions.
 Stax’s Perspective on the PHM Landscape 
The market for PHM support solutions and services is highly fragmented. Players in this space range from industry giants, such as McKesson and Cerner, to smaller businesses offering niche PHM  solutions. A wide range of capabilities and multiple applications is required to support PHM; a comprehensive solution would bridge across each of the eight PHM segments. While a number of vendors offer specialized components, there is currently no single vendor with a complete PHM offering, and the landscape continues to change with new segments constantly emerging. While EHR systems are a good first step, most are not designed for PHM or for interoperability with other systems. More specialized vendors are developing innovative applications that will be needed for the success of PHM—examples of specialized vendor product offerings include advanced population analytics, risk stratification, actionable reporting, predictive modeling, patient engagement services, patient education, automated alerts, and quality improvement advisory services.

Stax has identified a number of specialized PHM vendors—offering technology, analytics, and consultative services—that are well-positioned to grow in this space. Vendors currently in the market with PHM offerings come from a variety of backgrounds, such as HIE, RCM, EHR, clinical point solutions, and claims-centric solutions. This market is in its early stages, and Stax expects the market will grow significantly over the next few years.

Demand for PHM solutions will grow as population health covered lives increase. Providers express desire for a “bundled” PHM solution—but healthcare executives planning to implement PHM solutions realize that in today’s market a comprehensive PHM solution would be extremely expensive and they may need to work with multiple vendors for specific capabilities (e.g., one vendor for risk analytics, a different vendor for patient outreach, a different vendor for data warehousing, etc.). Stax expects over time that the players in the market will consolidate to some extent such that individual vendors will eventually offer more complete PHM solutions—much like we have seen over the last decade in the RCM (revenue cycle management) space.
 Key Takeaways and Implications While the concept of value-based payments is not new, population health management is still in its infancy for the vast majority of providers. This is not a passing fad considering extreme cost pressure, efforts by payers to shift financial risk, and ACA regulations. We expect significant growth over the next five years in population health management, in ACOs—and in technologies, solutions, and services for payers and providers of population health. The changing reimbursement models are prompting change in payer/provider relationships. To some extent, in the coming years, providers and payers may be competing with one another. The complexities of transitioning to population health management call for third-party experts and support solutions to facilitate change—from both a strategic and operational perspective. This translates to significant growth opportunities for vendors of PHM support solutions. We see the adoption of various PHM solutions as a progression over the next 1-5 years:
 Starting with investment in the most critical foundational components—i.e., data warehousing and data integration. Once IT infrastructure and data accessibility are in place (which have already seen significant progress in recent years, thanks to EHR meaningful use incentives), investment will likely be allocated to population analytics and care coordination solutions. As providers start to increasingly enter contractual risk-bearing agreements with payers, there will be increased adoption of solutions to help with risk contract management, system performance, and cost analytics. Conclusion 
The healthcare landscape is rapidly changing, with providers seeing the need to engage in population health management. However, while providers see this need and the opportunity that population health management provides, most lack the necessary capabilities and will need to build, outsource, or acquire these capabilities. This reality is spawning creation of an ecosystem of PHM solution providers that is poised for robust growth over the next five years.										
														 MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Digital Diligence – A Data-Driven Approach for Private Equity STAX INC  |   Jan. 10 2018 “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework? Most investors will say that they understand how digital contributes to a company’s strategy and growth, but few private equity sponsors have a formal methodology for assessing digital in commercial diligence.  Not many sponsors create a post-deal digital blueprint, and sellers typically don’t propose digital plans in their offering memorandums, further highlighting one of the great opportunities across most private equity portfolios. At the most basic level, what’s missing are competitive benchmarks and actionable insights for eCommerce, customer experience, and marketing, but the digital opportunity goes well beyond transactions.  Digital varies between B2C vs. B2B businesses, and extends to operational excellence as well as customer-facing opportunities.  Each type of business requires different metrics, and although eCommerce is the first and most obvious point of discussion, the reality is that digital value is also a function of many other technologies and opportunities, too. With stretched valuations chasing fewer strong assets in a competitive PE environment 1 , the need to build confidence in growth levers like digital is even more important to stay ahead of changing customer needs, deliver outsized growth, and create new revenue streams or business models.  A real understanding of what growth is practical and achievable in the hold period – what Stax calls practical growth potential (PGP TM ) – is necessary to develop the conviction needed to win competitive deals.  A better understanding than competitive bidders is an information edge with real value. Most PE firms do not have the right expertise in-house for either digital diligence or value creation.  It’s understandably more valuable for senior private equity staff to spend their time finding and doing deals than it is to evaluate digital business value. It’s also a function of the rapidly changing skill sets needed, and finding objective insight from advisors with a proper balance of hands-on digital experience combined with the pattern recognition of past digital investment experience.   Digital as a quantifiable, high-growth channel Digital – inclusive of web, mobile, and the omnichannel intersection of physical and online channels – has quantifiable advantages that can be evaluated during diligence. Digital channels typically grow faster than traditional physical sales, often at a rate of 2x to 3x traditional channels. 2   In 2016, global online sales grew at 24% whereas overall retail sales grew only 6%, and eCommerce as a share of total retail sales is expected to grow from 10% in 2017 to 15% in 2020. 3,4,5   eCommerce often provides better operating margins, meaning that every dollar sold has a margin multiplier effect that is typically 1X-2X that of traditional channels. 6   While many investors ask the understandable question whether a target company can successfully compete against Amazon, the reality is that many great middle market companies operate incredibly successfully online in highly defined segments. Finally, due to the ability to capture measurable and actionable insights from online engagement, digital can inform broader strategic insights about customer segmentation, the brand, and behaviors, as well as measurable insight into marketing efficiency and media spend.   A digital knowledge gap exists in private equity and portfolio companies Given this set of benefits, digital should serve as a key part of normal diligence, but there’s a gap among dealmakers in understanding how to quantify these benefits for both sell-side and buy-side teams. It’s understandable why this is the case: Digital historically was viewed as a great incremental source of revenue, but not necessarily as a key pillar of future growth more broadly across marketing, sales, service and operations. Mid-size portfolio and target companies often face smaller staffs with more limited bandwidth to monitor best practices or benchmarking methodologies. It’s most valuable for private equity partners to spend their time on sourcing and managing deals, not looking at personalization capabilities or analyzing keyword difficulty indices. Most service providers don’t appropriately combine a knowledge of investing with practical operating experience, and who appreciate the need to move fast in just a few weeks. Agencies often overweight the subjective opinions of designers and artists without the counterbalance of data; technology vendors are often focused on software sales or downstream implementation.   These challenges are exacerbated when advisors don’t have a clear understanding of PE time horizons, the concomitant pacing for investment and value creation, or the need for multiple avenues to de-risk an opportunity. So, what does all this mean in practice?   A Case Study in Consumer Products: Below is a short case study example from a context most sponsors will relate to easily: a consumer product brand that sells through traditional trade channels as well as a direct-to-consumer model.  The approach and content would be different but no less important or relevant in a more purely B2B example, but that will have to wait for the next article. In a recent digital diligence, without access to target-company data or to management outside of analytics passwords, we uncovered previously hidden areas of opportunity and implications for our private equity client. We saw that website searches for the target had increased by more than 250% over several years, while two close competitors had experienced declines over the same period.  Searches were also isolated by geographic location, thus enabling identification of areas where interest was highest and indicating areas of likely brand strength, and also showing places where marketing efforts could be targeted in future. Building on the above, we also learned that organic search was the highest source of eCommerce traffic, followed by email and direct-to-site visits, ie: entering the target name or URL directly.  High direct-to-site visits in conjunction with social media scraping and analysis confirmed brand strength. At the bottom of traffic generation were paid search and display ads, both representing less than 2% of traffic, which indicated areas of opportunity post-close to bring in stronger media buying expertise to increase traffic through paid avenues. In this case, it was reassuring to see a target company with strong results from the more foundational aspects of digital marketing, ie: SEO, e-mail and direct-to-site, with opportunities for expansion after purchase: Using industry benchmarks generated by analytics tools and proprietary methods, the traffic sources were also compared against competitors.  Consumer engagement from email and direct visits, marked in the shaded areas below, outperformed competitors, and duration on the site across traffic sources was up to 3X above benchmarks – meaning that visitors spent a lot of time on the site – which again hinted at rich content and brand strength and corroborated other diligence:   Traffic sources were then prioritized and compared against conversion rates and revenue per transaction by channel.  By looking at the purchasing funnel as well as actual revenue generated, we isolated areas of opportunity, and quantified where additional marketing focus could potentially yield the highest ROI. Using category benchmark data, we found that competitors who managed to create a subscription model saw an increase of up to 40% in LTV. Better keyword opportunities for paid media were also identified by taking into account the intersection of keyword rank, traffic and difficulty index.  We were able to show that the Target was most likely to be successful with narrow, targeted keyword buys, instead of broader generic terms dominated by bigger budgets, based on our analyses and algorithms, as shown in the shaded rows below:   Finally, we were also able to use a proprietary scorecard to evaluate the customer experience across more than 200 dimensions and specific criteria, inclusive of brand, usability, navigation, use of content, transactional capability, and use of social media. By aggregating the above findings, we were able to provide a quantified look at the current state and future growth potential of the digital channel and its implications for valuation.  Diligence was also able to identify actionable recommendations for optimizing digital channels that could carry to a blueprint for growth going forward.   Conclusion A data-driven digital diligence should be an important part of a private equity process, both underpinning valuations and identifying elements of the blueprint for post-acquisition growth. Digital diligence is a prudent means to identify and quantify important growth levers, create the confidence to make a successful bid, and drive an acquired company toward a future successful exit. , Stax Inc. Andy Macey is a Managing Director at Stax Inc., where he leads diligence and growth strategy work with private equity sponsors, portfolio companies, and corporate clients.  Prior to Stax Inc., Andy served in senior consulting and operating leadership roles, including private equity-backed companies as well as Fortune 100 corporations. Andy can be reached at amacey@stax.com. , Stax Inc. Jordan Bean is an Associate in Stax’s Boston office. He has experience across buy-side, sell-side, and strategy engagements in Consumer, Technology, Industrials and other verticals. Jordan can be reached at jbean@stax.com. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Technology in Fleets STAX INC  |   Jan. 22 2018 According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles. While everyone has been writing about driverless cars, less glamorous (but equally important) is technology for trucking – a large and critical industry with a shortage of drivers. According to research at  , with the decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and, of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles. No doubt, this will include technology. What were once the hallmarks of differentiation for UPS and FedEx – technology that tracks exactly when a package arrived, has expanded in every part of fleet management. The payload was the first core item tracked with technology because the customer most valued knowing where their package was and when they’d get it. This included smaller packages for consumers and business and, with the advent of just in time delivery across industry, this capability became the table stakes for all shippers. And now that’s evolved considerably. The three main areas tracked and managed by technology include: The asset The workflow The driver According to  research, in areas such as telematics and remote diagnostics, government leads the way and while the rest of industry lags as a whole, there is still wide differentiation between levels of technology used. These are all good from a fleet efficiency perspective to be able to route and manage resources and people very tightly. The technology also delivers unexpected benefits, e.g. reducing fraudulent insurance claims, because the cameras on trucks can prove if/when an accident happened and if not. On the bad news, a lot of drivers don’t always like big brother with a camera on them. Think  Convoy ,  Smokey and the Bandit,  Kris Kristofferson or Jerry Reed being personally tracked by their CBs with a camera over their shoulders. And it’s very hard to find drivers these days. The data shows wage escalation, and  has seen a variety of measures to recruit and retain drivers with a clear segmentation of driver interests. The implications are there, no matter if you’re operating a trucking company or a participant in the industry: Fleet owners need to do anything they can to try and make up for increase in cost of driver pay. And if they think the price of oil will rise again, they want to consider more efficiency and alternative fuels (natural gas), if they have wet contracts (which means cost of fuel included in their sales), or consistent routes that allow for easier fill ups of natural gas. They certainly want to track data and develop insights from their costs to better manage costs and productivity. As mobile phones become ubiquitous, cameras become less expensive and the Internet of Things provides receptors all over the vehicle – there are a lot of potential ways to gather data and provide information to the fleet operator. And as more software is over the cloud, it becomes easier to for smaller users within the enterprise to buy and lager users to change providers. Implications for owners and operators: Try new things and programs that work, and beware of ticking off your drivers, and work to get the buy in from customers on major changes. If you’re a technology provider, the list is longer. Make sure of the stickiness of your offering and whether it can become a feature of someone else’s as the Internet of Things becomes more powerful. The next challenge and opportunity will be increasing the prices in the future, as technology costs come down and switching costs come down. As a result, you need to continue showing value (which can come from better use of past data). As  research has shown across industry, for companies with software that manage operations, customers want more assistance managing the assets. They don’t just want tracking. They want data, insights and easy ways to see what they can improve. Whether you’re an operator or provider into the ecosystem, the best ways are to continue driving success are to identify value to all parties (drivers, operators, customers) and get buy-in, as well as demonstrate the continued value over time. They won’t all change at the same time. However, when you strike the right balance between leveraging fleet management technology and retaining human capital, there will be plenty interested in following the road on which you lead. , Stax Inc. Rafi Musher is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Stax Inc. Under Musher’s leadership, Stax has grown to become an internationally-recognized strategy consultancy serving the world’s largest corporations and private equity firms. Musher also leads the Stax Development Corporation (DevCorp), which he founded in 2011. Stax DevCorp creates new companies, joint ventures and buy/build investment strategies to address critical and sizable market needs. Stax DevCorp’s portfolio companies are a blend of traditional businesses and double bottom line companies focused on effecting sustainable, positive, social impact. Musher serves on the boards of four Stax DevCorp portfolio companies: BeneStream Inc., Credifi, Edco and Ultra Testing. Since founding Stax Inc. in 1994, Musher has advised senior executives on a broad range of issues including corporate strategy, profit improvement, competitive positioning, leveraged buyouts, investment, divestment, and due diligence/M&A. Musher regularly counsels clients across a number of key business sectors including agriculture, business services, consumer/retail, education, energy/environmental, financial services, healthcare, industrial and technology. In addition to his work with Stax, Musher is engaged in numerous philanthropic ventures and currently serves on the board of The Bronx Lab School, an innovative NYC public high school with a focused mission of preparing 100% of their students for college. He is founder and Chairman of Israel & Co., a non-profit organization working with more than 50 leading MBA programs globally, bringing current and future business leaders to Israel to get a firsthand look at innovation at its peak. Musher is a popular speaker and thought leader on corporate innovation and venture philanthropy. His work is regularly published in media outlets such as The Deal, The M&A Journal, Forbes.com, Fortune.com, Public Utility Fortnightly’s Spark, and Chain Store Age. Musher is frequently a guest lecturer at business schools and philanthropy conferences discussing topics such as social ventures and impact investing. Musher holds a B.S. in Communications and Advertising from Boston University. , Stax Inc. Brett Conradt is a Managing Director at Stax Inc., regularly advising private equity and corporate clients on organic and inorganic growth initiatives, partnering to build actionable strategies. Conradt joined Stax’s Chicago office in 2006, and has expertise in consumer / retail businesses along with industrial products and services. In his relationships with large-cap and middle market funds as well as corporate clients, he oversees extensive consulting engagements to identify, size, and prioritize international and domestic growth opportunities. Prior to Stax, Conradt worked at StrategyOne, a subsidiary of Edelman Worldwide, where he developed strategic messaging and positioning programs for clients across multiple end industries. Conradt began his career at Salton, Inc., where he developed, grew, and maintained well-known consumer electronics brands. Conradt has guest lectured at several universities including the University of Illinois, Texas A&M University, and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. He has also written numerous thought leadership pieces focused on retail and industrial markets. Conradt holds an M.B.A. from the Lake Forest Graduate School of Management and a B.S. in Marketing from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework?Tag: Corporate M&A Deals have become increasingly competitive, with an ever-increasing number of bidders involved in every transaction. Surveys are an extraordinarily valuable tool for generating deep customer insights quickly. They work as standalone efforts and even better when integrated with macro data, externally generated data and internally generated data. Like all good things, a little process and preparation helps you go faster and deeper to generate insights. By understanding that the entire process is what generates insights and not just the survey itself, you’ll ensure the output is meaningful and impactful. In today’s environment, what is consulting worth? What is the value of commercial due diligence from a strategy consulting firm? Are consultants worth less or more to private equity investors than they were ten or fifteen years ago? Under what circumstances is consulting worth more, or worth less? At Stax, we can provide quantitative answers to such questions. Speaking with BizReport, Palash Misra discusses trends and the cause of growth in the marketing technology space. Whether you regard time as a steady continuum or stretchable elastic, as Einstein theorized, we all know that time is money. We often see organizations spend a lot of money without saving time, when they could have spent the same money, saved a lot of time and effort, and reached their growth goals much more quickly. What I’ve learned from the last two recessions and working with some of the best investors in the world, is that information is far from perfect, and one can get a huge information advantage, and there is value in learning how to move fast. Whether this market is similar or different for technical reasons, I won’t argue. But there is no do doubt about this: In today’s environment, we can get far more information, far faster, than any of the last go-arounds. Based on 20 years of experience advising on the buy side of commercial due diligence and helping companies increase profits, here are six ways we see to increase exit value. These generally take just four weeks to six months to complete, and most have a significant ROI within three to six months if you choose not to sell.Tag: Digital Diligence “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework?Harry and Me:  How to Lead When the World is Changing Faster Than Our Experience Set STAX INC  |   May. 19 2016 I remember it being a treat to have breakfast with my grandfather, Harry Torczyner. We’d have soft boiled eggs and he’d read the paper — or several. He was an international lawyer, spoke seven languages, had one law degree in Europe and received another law degree in the US after fleeing Belgium when the Nazis started bombing. All I could think about when we had breakfast was that with a 57-year head start on reading the newspapers from different countries every day, I’d never catch up to his knowledge. Just a couple of decades ago, being older gave you a competitive advantage in business. You had seen more and therefore had more data points for pattern recognition and could make better decisions faster than the competition. Being older also gave you more years to network, learn about people, develop trusted relationships and access resources to take action on decisions. Today, that competitive advantage of age is changing fast and there’s a best of both worlds, if you read on. Peter Drucker Would Approve of Leveraging More Information It’s no secret that the volume and types of information are exploding, while in parallel analytic processing power is growing at an exponential rate. Every day more than 92,000 articles are published on the web, including scientific and business content that would have been reserved for exclusive audiences via journals and conferences. Governments are digitizing massive data sources so you can access them at scale. Billions of retail and business consumers provide great free content online by posting information suitable for scraping and mining. You can find almost anyone for primary research or 1:1 commentary. Corporations have massive data stores that are now accessible for meta-analysis and granular analysis. As for processing power, our ultra light laptops can run highly complex analyses thanks to cloud-based analytical and data mining software. Specialty programs let you mix and match data types for analysis — matching spreadsheets and video clips. It can be a data deluge and distraction. It can also help the most seasoned veteran or youngest executive apply their expertise with greater speed and certainty than ever before. As an example, a few months ago, an executive with a good reputation and his largest investor came to us and asked for advice positioning their company for sale. From a purely outside perspective, within two weeks we could demonstrate the company’s positioning with customers and competitors as well as detailed weaknesses in the operation. Further, we could give them a concrete assessment of competition in the seven markets they planned to enter and forecast the headwind by city. We used one experienced director and three different teams each with a specialization in researching and analyzing different data streams. We brought more research, data and analytic processing power for pattern recognition to bear than their company could or any one person ever could. The mix of resources generated the insights that were unknown and highly relevant to the chairman and lead investor. Within two weeks we’d gotten enough information to have valid expertise on the company. It doesn’t mean we knew everything — the average age of our team (exclusive of me) was 30, but it does mean that we could be a powerful ally to an executive, in this case the CEO, with more than 30 years of experience. Armed with the data and pattern recognition resources, he knew exactly what do to and in having this ability early, could be a far more effective executive. If Peter Drucker were alive today, he’d certainly approve of executives using more data to identify where to spend their time effectively. Harnessing the power This scene is common even with executives very in tune with their marketplace. Whether you’re in the driver’s seat for the last three years or thirty years, I consistently see four areas where executives can bring more data, analysis, and pattern recognition resources to bear, allowing for greater impact with less risk: Identifying growth, improving operations, facilitating change being held up by “experience bias,” and identifying safe zones to experiment with new ideas. When it comes to identifying and quantifying growth, those who can access research and more rapidly bring it to bear will see changes and inflection points sooner, allowing them to point resources at growth opportunities. What used to take nine months of work in the 90s with only a reasonable level of certainty can now be done in 1/3rd the time with a high level of conviction. The earlier you focus on market and customer growth, the better the profit margin and better chance of success. A second area where data provides greater insights is in day-to-day operations to understand the true drivers of profit and cost. Leaders running an operation day to day are focused on delivery of goods and services and look for the consistencies to manage people, because people work better with a routine. When you can get beneath the averages to analyze productivity of all of the resources required to satisfy customers profitably, you inevitably identify great gaps — which means great opportunities. Those looking from the outside in at the data can leverage more data than the human mind can compute, identify with less bias the consistencies and inconsistencies that identify profit gaps that might not otherwise be seen. Once you know the scale of these opportunities, you can get creative about exploiting these gaps, deliver big results in utilization, pricing, profitability and use of capital. But if you can’t get the information to see the opportunities — you can’t challenge your resources to capitalize on those opportunities. Every executive knows that change is hard, and convincing your team to change is harder. Given the abundance of data, it is easier than ever before to get people around the table, hear their opinions and resistance to change, and simply ask, “Has anyone pulled the data?” Because as much as you can debate, and disagree, chances are there is a way to pull a lot of information and agree as to how to analyze it, process it together, and come to a cohesive conclusion that gets people going in the same direction. Now once you even agree on the new direction, question arise like how do you take a risk without the worry of large failure and loss of momentum? How will you lead your team into the great unknown? There goes that big data, pattern recognition bringing you a solution. Given the large volume data in most company systems (even old messy ones), one can back test patterns of customer behavior and operating situations to isolate small groups that are representative of larger groups. It’s easier, faster and cheaper to lead a new initiative when you can test it small scale and have the confidence that the test group represents larger potential. It isn’t lost on me, that in this case I suggest executives get smart about purposely not knowing answers, and focusing entirely on how to be smarter about asking questions. In a fast moving market answers are short lived, while good questions are constant. At least that’s true in my experience. Which dovetails nicely to conclusion. Does any of this access to more data and analysis mean you don’t need the industry expertise or operational chops to make something happen? Or that there is no value in experience that comes with age? Not at all. You still need operating teams to run a business and you need to lead teams to make things happen. The best way to do this today is is bring them along in your thinking about harnessing the power of information to make the entire organization more data driven, and faster at finding opportunities and moving to capitalize on them. My grandfather’s career, compared to my career My grandfather was many things, including irreverent. He insisted we call him Harry rather than grandpa, lest someone think he was old enough to be a grandfather. He wrote letters to the building management calling them communist because they didn’t want him putting great art in hallway outside of his office. He ran a boutique international advisory law firm where his encyclopedic knowledge, experience and intellect was the value — and it was great value. This was right for the times and it served him well and me well as he provided for our family. He wouldn’t expect me to do it his way. Over the past 20 years, I’ve taken an approach for the new millennium, recruiting a lot of great people with different research and analytic strengths to team up and collectively gather more data and generate more insights than any one person could generate on their own. While I’m pretty good with pattern recognition and have more than 20 years of in depth research and analytic expertise, of this I am sure: Our team here working together, on any day — can kick my ass in getting to an answer. So I’ve become comfortable with not knowing as much personally, but having access to far more when I need it. For this executive and grandson — it would still be great to have that breakfast again (Harry would be 114). And though I may not have the same languages or encyclopedic knowledge of history, art and law, I could do a pretty decent job of keeping up, and certainly more than fair job of having been able to transfer knowledge to all of our clients over the years. I don’t know that I’ll ever have more content stored in the noggin than Harry. But I may be getting closer at a younger age, at being able to share relevant content with more people for their dealings. It’s a new millennium for sure — and in addition to Harry being OK with this, I’m betting a few other executives are too. And as for knowing more than my grandfather Harry. I don’t know that I know more, but I think he’d give me credit for knowing a thing or two — or at least who to ask. , Stax Inc. Rafi Musher is the founder and CEO of Stax Inc. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Services Stax is unique in both what we do and how we do it. We develop fact-based analyses and insights, helping executives and their teams make critical business decisions. Common areas of analysis focus on: Organic Growth. Stax helps businesses of all stripes, sizes, and geographies drive organic growth. Our services cover the full scope of market and segment sizing, and opportunity assessment. We identify, size, and help prioritize new growth opportunities, where a company’s value proposition fits best with a market and/or segment. Stax helps clients see where they can win market share, expand their product line, enter adjacent new markets, reduce churn, and launch in new geographies. Operational Profit Improvement. Stax helps clients bring more revenue to the top line and deploy capital more effectively to bolster the bottom line. We look at the key levers that drive each client’s profitability, and analyze which levers make the greatest difference. Frequently, we look at customer profitability, pricing, working capital optimization, site selection, and marketing expenditures. We benchmark productivity and make actionable recommendations that lead to profit improvement. Sales & Marketing Resource Allocation. Stax helps clients optimize their sales and marketing activities to generate higher returns. We perform detailed customer segmentation analyses, understand customers’ buying processes, look across sales and marketing channels, and determine the optimal sales process and sales force deployment. Our engagements help clients allocate sales and marketing resources to drive growth. Global Prioritization and Multi-Country Growth. Stax helps companies assess and prioritize various market opportunities. Such decisions are based on a deep understanding of the trends and relative growth rates in different markets, how well a company’s products and value proposition fit in a market and in specific segments, and the various risks involved. M&A Deal Due Diligence. M&A is often a central part of a business’s strategy, whether a corporation is looking for increased distribution or expansion into adjacent markets, or a private equity firm is looking for investments in specific categories that generate the best returns. Stax provides advisory support at every step: from determining whether acquisition is the best way to achieve corporate objectives and defining key candidate criteria, to sifting through the universe of potential targets (Deal Triage TM ), conducting due diligence to fully vet those that look promising, identifying operational-improvement opportunities, and maximizing ultimate sale value at exit. Stax helps craft acquisition strategies and even conducts initial candidate screening. Portfolio Company Support. Once a deal is consummated, Stax works with portfolio companies’ management teams to develop strategies to realize the company’s full potential. Stax brings all of its capabilities to bear in developing 90-day plans that include identifying opportunities for organic revenue growth, profit improvement, geographic expansion, entry into adjacent markets or channels, and sales optimization. We’re frequently brought in by management mid-ownership cycle for key needs, and to support short- and long-term value maximization in preparing companies for exit, whether exit is expected in three years, one year, or even three months. “I’ve never seen anyone triage the opportunities like Stax.” – CEO, Multi-Billion Dollar CorporationWhere Modernity Meets Tradition: A Dual-hub IT Strategy for Jaffna STAX INC  |   Jul. 10 2018 Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its plans for Island of Ingenuity (IOI), a LKR 300M investment in the ICT/BPM sector to create a global centre of excellence in high-end product engineering, IP creation and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO). Efforts are already underway to digitize the country’s financial sector, education system, hospitals and public information services, amongst others. By 2022, SLASSCOM estimates that the IT/BPM sector is expected to reach $5B in revenue, create 200,000 direct jobs and encompass 1,000 start-ups. As Sri Lanka gears up for the future, this report asks a singular question. What role can the Northern Province play in this growth story? In particular, what will it look like for Jaffna to be a pivotal part of Sri Lanka’s vision for the IT industry? Currently, Sri Lanka’s Information and Communications sector generates a turnover of ~$1.2B per annum through ~65,000 employees. The Northern Province accounts for approximately 4% of these jobs. Positively, our research suggests that Jaffna is well-positioned to capitalize on the momentum in the broader IT market. Among the noteworthy attributes, we observe a positive and entrepreneurial attitude, a strong connection to the Diaspora community (leading to potential funding avenues), a high literacy rate, basic ICT infrastructure and a range of IT education opportunities. Notably, some of these attributes leave Jaffna better placed to become a digital hub than cities such as Kandy and Galle. The recommendations of this report are informed by an assessment of the overall IT industry in Jaffna and the broader North—including the supply of IT skills, the quality of such skills (specifically industry readiness), the demand for IT services, types of IT education providers, successful entrepreneurs, companies that originated in and expanded to the North, as well as IT accelerators and platforms supporting the industry. To read the full report,  MORE FROM STAX INC According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles. “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework?Tag: Analytics “We didn’t know how to value the digital piece of the business, and we lost the deal because we couldn’t make a strong enough bid.” Does your team have a strong digital valuation framework? Deals have become increasingly competitive, with an ever-increasing number of bidders involved in every transaction. Technology is fundamentally changing behavior and power dynamics across the agriculture value chain. Investors in agriculture should look both at how technology is being used to drive value within their own segment of the value chain and at how available technology is driving change across the industry. Surveys are an extraordinarily valuable tool for generating deep customer insights quickly. They work as standalone efforts and even better when integrated with macro data, externally generated data and internally generated data. Like all good things, a little process and preparation helps you go faster and deeper to generate insights. By understanding that the entire process is what generates insights and not just the survey itself, you’ll ensure the output is meaningful and impactful. Understanding customer decision making is crucial to profitable growth, and particularly so in driving product development or sales and marketing investment decisions. Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Palash Misra crafted an article on how to utilize social insights to fully understand a company’s position in the marketplace and what it needs to do in order to best operate the business. Just a couple of decades ago, being older gave you a competitive advantage in business. You had seen more and therefore had more data points for pattern recognition and could make better decisions faster than the competition. Being older also gave you more years to network, learn about people, develop trusted relationships and access resources to take action on decisions. Today, that competitive advantage of age is changing fast and there’s a best of both worlds, if you read on. In our experience working with hundreds of management teams across a range of “what just happened” situations, we’ve identified a set of common principles that successful management teams and advisors follow to drive value by understanding why what just happened, happened. When leadership can understand and explain the sources of change to the company and to investors, the odds of effective action increase dramatically. We see a lot of companies missing the value at their doorstep — because there’s so much data to pull together from disparate sources and they don’t have the resources to turn that data to insights. And, we see companies struggling under the volume of data, feeling the only answer is to implement a mega-solution that will deliver everything in one dashboard — but that takes years, millions and can be high-risk. By bringing more facts, analysis, and market agility to strategic decision making, the knowledgeable can become even better, faster, and more successful in leading organizations in this uncertain, dynamic world.Tag: Healthcare Jeremy Wall, Director at Stax, writes in Healthcare Informatics, on how the cyber threat environment should create significant opportunity for managed security service providers (MSSPs) and security providers willing to take the plunge into the complicated world of healthcare. While this framework requires sophisticated analytics and data integration, it really is an exercise in common sense: better allocating efforts and resources by boiling data down to practical information. Our experience suggests that by using this framework, it is possible to get that all-important head start and the results quickly pay for themselves. The flow of patients across borders in pursuit of health and wellness is an age-old phenomenon. From the ancient Greeks who journeyed to Epidauria seeking the healing deity Asclepius to modern healthcare consumers with their calibrated itineraries combining both medical treatment and leisure, medical tourism has been a feature of the ages. The industry has, however, gained special traction in the 21st century. Today, ever increasing numbers travel internationally for medical treatment, driven by the promise of quality care at an affordable price. Historically, per capita healthcare spend by Asian countries has been minuscule compared to that of mega-spenders like the U.S. or Norway. However, with an aging population, rising affluence, and demand for better health services in Asia, healthcare expenditure growth in the APAC region is set to outstrip North America’s.Taking Over The Mantle: Sri Lankan Family Businesses Today STAX INC  |   Oct. 12 2017 A family business is like a double-edged sword. Driven by emotion, these organizations have a deeper purpose beyond the nuts and bolts of business—they are full of soul. In Sri Lanka, family businesses have long underpinned corporate and social life; persevering past the war-torn years all the way through to the economic resurgence we now experience. Equally though, the very bonds that cohere family firms in a common purpose can also prove corrosive if they are not managed properly. Globally, family businesses face similar challenges—complacency over time, family disputes, transitional issues across generations, ambiguity in structures and processes, amongst others. As I see it, Sri Lankan family firms stand on the cusp of a phenomenal opportunity as the region expands. Most of these firms are now managed by 2nd and 3rd generation family members who have an unprecedented advantage in terms of global education and exposure. These generations are raring to go! However, there is a short window to capitalize on the opportunities that dot the horizon; from overseas expansion to product diversification. Today’s businesses need to think big and act fast in order to fulfill their responsibility to the economy and make their mark on the nation. This is why it gives me great pleasure to share the findings of our first ever survey of local family businesses, carried out by STAX in cooperation with the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. This report gives us the low-down of the strengths, challenges and experiences of Sri Lankan family firms today. In sharing these findings, our goal is to help family businesses build clarity, comfort and capability—to understand the opportunities and threats that confront them in order to capitalize or mitigate accordingly. To read the full report, please  .   , Stax Ruwindhu Peiris is a Managing Director at Stax Inc., and serves as the head of the Colombo Office. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Mobile Payments: How Urgent? STAX INC  |   Jan. 14 2016 Mobile payments have been growing impressively, but recent estimates suggest they still represent less than 1% of total global retail sales. Many retail executives may be wondering whether the technology is worth bothering with in right now. We offer some guidelines to help them decide. We’ve all heard lots of talk about mobile payments—paying at retail cash registers using a smartphone or other device that houses your credit-card and other information. Some are even equipping sales people with devices that can take payments right on the floor. But is the technology more hype than reality? Although they have been growing impressively, recent estimates suggest they still represent less than 1% of total global retail sales. Many retail executives may be wondering whether the technology is worth investing in right now. I outlined some guidelines to help retail managements decide in a recent piece on  . Mobile payment systems offer consumers benefits beyond simply storing credit cards, such as tracking loyalty points and shopping patterns, which help retailers better target promotions to individual preferences. But several factors are holding them back. First, there is no clear winner yet in terms of which mobile-payments technology consumers and retailers should converge around, so many solutions currently compete for consumer and retailer buy-in. Second, these services often require hardware beyond what’s usually used for conventional checkouts; accepting multiple services would require retailers to cede more precious counter space. So, for the time being, it’s not clear how the mobile-payments landscape will ultimately pan out. Should retailers be thinking of dipping a toe in the water now, or is it better to just wait? There are several factors to weigh: Size . Technologies using mainstream devices such as iPads as receivers are relatively easy and low risk for smaller retailers to adopt, but buying them for checkouts across a large retail chain would represent a meaningful investment. Conversely, solutions built around scanning a bar code may only require some programming modification for larger retailers. Cost . Equipment cost, logistics, and space requirements can vary among mobile payment technologies. If a chain is undecided about which technology to try, understanding these issues relative to that chain’s particular constraints can help drive decision making. Tipping point . At what threshold does this start to matter to me? Each retailer will need to set its own hurdle at which it would consider mobile payments substantive, whether based on number of users, transaction volume, or share of wallet. Competitors . Even if mobile-payment adoption isn’t economically attractive to specific merchant at the moment, it must be aware of what competitors or doing, to understand whether there’s a risk of losing customers to the chain down the street. Customers . If a chain’s shoppers tend to be early adopters already using mobile-payment technology, it may have no choice but moving ahead. Similarly, relative costs of the different mobile-payment apps have little relevance if a chain’s customers have already migrated toward a particular solution. Mobile payments are definitely something to keep an eye on over the horizon. Using the above framework and information from the signposts will let you know when you should get in to test and learn, so you can scale up to meet the customer needs. –  Brett Conradt MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Our Culture  /  Our Culture WORK ENVIRONMENT We take our work seriously, but not ourselves. We’re focused on building value for our clients and constantly improving our firm culture. In addition to contributing to client engagements, everyone is encouraged to contribute to the firm’s development and our community efforts. We have tremendous respect for what people of any age can bring to the table. Our founders started Stax in their 20s. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stax believes strongly in doing well by doing good, and social responsibility is in our DNA. As a firm, we support many worthy causes—particularly through our time and insights—and we encourage staff to do the same. We’ve also established our Stax DevCorp operation with one of its portfolios dedicated to identifying and launching new for-profit ventures that bring new solutions to entrenched social issues. See specific examples of how Stax puts the principle of doing well by doing good into action  QUALITY OF LIFE Our goal is to empower and challenge our consultants, while supporting a reasonable work/life balance. No question: you’ll work hard. But unlike many firms that require consultants to spend most of their time on the road, Stax consultants get to go home most nights, typically travelling only one or two days a week. You’ll also have great opportunity to build your career. The leadership team at Stax all started as analysts at other firms—which speaks to the growth potential available. If this sounds like a good fit, we encourage you to contact us to find out more about potential opportunities at Stax. PEOPLE OF STAXWhy Stax  /  Why Stax Our services are tailored to the needs of each engagement. Everything we do is driven by guiding principles. WORK CLOSELY WITH THE CLIENT TO FRAME THE PROBLEM Virtually any objective, no matter how ambitious, can be achieved by breaking down a broader issue into its component parts, asking the right questions to solve for each piece of the puzzle, and hone in quickly on the most critical decisions. USE THE CLIENT’S TIME EFFICIENTLY AND DON’T “MOVE IN” Stax is known for gathering the information we need to get to work quickly, and then moving on to do our work away from your premises. We have the utmost respect for your team’s time, work iteratively and collaboratively to share findings and learn from each other along the way, and never wait until the end to see if the pieces come together properly. DIG DEEPLY TO GAIN FACT-BASED INSIGHTS Solutions come from experience complemented by data and insight. We built Stax to combine experienced consultants with experienced research and data mining teams as in-house resources. It is a different structure than traditional management and strategic consulting firms. The mix of resources provides flexibility to our senior team and immense value to our clients. IDENTIFY IMPLICATIONS We understand how trends, competition, and customer demand shapes markets, but more importantly, we provide a clear assessment of the business impact for you or a target company. We show where the business stands today relative to where it should be, as well as any potential roadblocks that may hinder getting there. GET TO ACTIONABLE RECOMMENDATIONS At Stax, we believe it’s not enough to simply identify and size problems — you need specific action plans. We provide you with clear next steps, and work with you to create the most effective communications to accelerate buy-in from division management, the Board of Directors, or lenders.CEOs Want to Know “What Just Happened?” STAX INC  |   May. 3 2016 This is a question that management teams are asking more frequently. As information systems proliferate, senior managers have greater visibility into changes occurring within the business, and that visibility is becoming more timely. Instead of waiting for backward-looking quarterly reporting, management sees and feels changes in near real-time. Examples include decelerating growth in an important division or product or customer segment, or spikes in customer churn, or declines in win rates, or unexpected growth in a segment. The problem is much of this incoming information is noise, and often there is little translation to better management decisions. The missing element is understanding  why  the change occurred, and what can be done to either mitigate or accelerate the change. Sure, there are usually plenty of theories, often conflicting, amongst the management team, with most support anecdotal. But there is seldom a definitive answer, much less an ability to communicate with the broader team and take action. There is a solution. In our experience working with hundreds of management teams across a range of “what just happened” situations, we’ve identified a set of common principles that successful management teams and advisors follow to drive value by understanding why what just happened, happened. When leadership can understand and explain the sources of change to the company and to investors, the odds of effective action increase dramatically. Prioritize by Value Usually, there is a not a single point of responsibility for prioritizing the issues and understanding the relative value of mitigating or accelerating the changes observed. What’s important is that there is a focus on quantified value and clear responsibility for making this happen. We’ve seen that responsibility successfully resident in differing functions, there is not one answer. Often it is finance, marketing, or strategic planning, but not always. Identify the individual or organization or outside partner that has the capability to rapidly assess the potential value of observed change. Then put changes into three categories: those with highest potential value that need to be understood and acted upon quickly, those with lower potential value that bear continued observation, and those that can be de-prioritized. Be disciplined about asking yourself and your team what it is worth to answer a particular question, and prioritize accordingly. Integrate streams of information Often many of the building blocks of understanding exist within the organization already, but they have not been integrated into a coherent perspective. Comparing multiple sources of information is almost always more insightful than reliance on a single source. Multiple sources often provide for derived insights. While there might be an apparently definitive industry report or expert that is on point for explaining the observed trend, there is value in triangulating and pressure testing. Source integration can be done outside of current company systems, and often must be done in this way, with multiple systems that do not allow ready linking and integration. Be creative in sourcing information New sources of information and insight emerge all the time, even in mature industries. The standard sources of industry insight are always valuable to understand, if for no other reason than to understand the conventional wisdom. However, the answer to “what just happened” is often found outside the usual sources, because by definition the question arises from something unexpected, something often running counter to conventional wisdom. We’ve seen multiple examples of emerging sources that provide new insights, from social media data aggregation, to unstructured data (mining of service notes and comments for example), to more easily accessible public government source data (availability of IRS benefits filings for example) to purchased data aggregations. And finally, direct, proprietary, primary research often provides information that simply can’t be had anywhere else. And primary research (customer telephone or online or in-person interviews for example), has become faster and more efficient than ever before, if correctly designed and staged. Often it’s the incremental insight from additional and creatively sourced information that makes all the difference in understanding. Design the process for multiple, rapid cycles In general, faster and more incremental is better. A process for understanding change that is built on a series of defined and rapid steps, with incremental course correction and adjustment, will produce better insights faster than ever before, and more efficiently than a highly centralized, top-down, ponderous, long-term strategy project. Unfortunately, this does not align with the business model or desires of many advisors, who live and profit off of a long-term, ponderous approach. That is not to say your process shouldn’t be strategic. It should be strategic and efficient: focused on what is highest value, driving to a prioritized set of actions based on real understanding, and having the flexibility to adjust to unforeseen changes. Be comfortable with uncertainty Related to the idea of incremental and repeated insight generation is the concept of comfort with uncertainty. While there is an answer to “what just happened” and more importantly why did it happen, insight into both of those questions is at best imperfect. The best outcome is informed decision making through a fact-based understanding of risks and returns. You must evaluate the confidence level of each element of understanding, and weigh the risks and alternatives of each implied action. This is another reason that the incremental and iterative approach works best. Force your team and your advisors to come to conclusions relatively quickly, and force them to evaluate the level of confidence around those conclusions, and then determine whether additional study is warranted, and at what point the returns to additional study are not justified. That is the point at which you must act. And then equally critically, you must measure the results of your action and adjust accordingly. This is the role of leadership. Companies that master this process reap multiple benefits. Most important is better performance as measured by profitable growth. But also important is an ongoing, and nuanced understanding of the business, and of the risks and rewards of action within a particular space. With time, the decision of study v. act becomes faster and easier to make, and drives additional control and even enjoyment in decision making and management of the business. When deep understanding of the why underpins communication to the broader team and to investors, the effectiveness of leadership is significantly enhanced. , Stax Inc. Mark Bremer is the President of Stax, where he heads consulting business and serves as the Managing Director of Stax’s Chicago office. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Searching for the Cure to Healthcare Security STAX INC  |   May. 27 2016 , Director at Stax, writes in  , on how the cyber threat environment should create significant opportunity for managed security service providers (MSSPs) and security providers willing to take the plunge into the complicated world of healthcare. Selling into healthcare is a complicated endeavor. Particularly selling technology and services into healthcare. First, they segment into payers and providers… For the payers, Stax’s research shows that some should be nearing the end of their investment in enterprise data warehousing and integration, and they have a lot that they need to protect. They are also comfortable outsourcing large implementations to third party providers and the sales cycle is generally slow. All this points to the opportunity to choose your end target and best partners along the way. Providers have a much more complex challenge for three primary reasons: broad range of user sophistication, broad user access, and a broader industry goal of more information sharing. Read the  . MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Ruwindhu Peiris  / 
					 Ruwindhu Peiris Managing Director Sri Lanka Focus Areas Execution enablement Operations optimization Productization Ruwindhu Peiris is a Managing Director at Stax Inc., and serves as the head of the Colombo Office. Additionally, Ruwindhu works across our offices to enable an agile and efficient operating platform. He works closely with the other Directors to synthesize our unique experiences to develop innovative new service offerings that help clients maximize investments and capitalize on emerging opportunities. Prior to joining Stax, Ruwindhu was Vice President and the Head of Operations for Virtusa Corporation, a global information technology (IT) services company providing IT consulting, technology and outsourcing services. In this role he was accountable for strategy execution via business planning, resource management, and overall operations optimization. During his ten years at Virtusa, Ruwindhu successfully implemented multiple complex solutions for Global 500 companies in the banking, financial services, insurance, and telecom industries, transforming their data and information into business-critical dashboards and decision tools. Previously, Ruwindhu worked for Nortel Networks (Ottawa, Canada) within the Synchronous Optical Networks division, and John Keells Holdings (one of Sri Lanka’s largest Blue Chip companies) where he designed and implemented unified data, voice and video networks. Ruwindhu earned an M.B.A. from Edith Cowan University (Australia) and is an Electrical Engineering graduate from Queen’s University (Canada). Authored ArticlesLeadership  /  Leadership Stax’s senior staff averages more than two decades of experience and shares a common interest in helping our clients get answers, make better decisions, and improve their situations. The members of the leadership team have many years of managerial experience in consulting, investment, and operating roles and therefore share an appreciation for being in the trenches. We have been trained and schooled in classic strategy consulting. In the halls of Stax, you will hear us collaborating, brainstorming, challenging conventional thinking, and hashing out the best answers for our clients. Boston Chicago Colombo New York SingaporeExpertise With more than two decades of deep, broad industry experience, Stax can navigate industry specifics quickly. We ask the right questions, clearly frame the important issues, analyze substantial and relevant data, and provide the meaningful answers you need to make key decisions. These are some of the key industries in which we’ve generated fresh insights to keep our clients ahead of the curve: “Stax provided value in week one, and clearly breached the wall at our firm.” — Leading Tech LBO firmOperational Improvement Companies can’t manage what they can’t measure. Stax helps clients frame out and measure almost anything — whether the data is embedded in deep systems, needs to come from the outside, or be developed through new, independent research and analysis. Our analytics help uncover insights into operating performance, resource allocation, working capital use, profit improvement, value creation, and to discover what’s working, what’s not, and, most importantly, why. What We Do Profitability Analysis and Relative Value Contribution Analysis  – By looking at the key levers that drive each client’s profitability, and analyzing which levers make the greatest difference, Stax helps clients deliver more revenue to the top line and deploy capital more effectively to bolster the bottom line. Frequently, we look at customer profitability, pricing, working capital optimization, site selection, and marketing expenditures. We benchmark productivity and make actionable recommendations that lead to improved profit. Operational Assessment, Turnaround, Growth, and “Immediate Action” Planning  – At Stax, we’re never locked into a pre-set hypothesis — we believe that the truth always lies in the data. We are resourceful, analytically rigorous, and draw our conclusions based on what the data tells us. We’re also not afraid to question historic thinking for a fresh test. Sales and Marketing Alignment, Marketing Spend Analysis  – Stax helps clients optimize their sales and marketing activities more efficiently to generate higher returns. We perform detailed customer segmentation analyses, understand customers’ buying processes, asses sales and marketing channels, and determine the optimal sales process and sales force deployment. Understanding Root Cause of Change and Clear Drivers of Performance  – Stax understands the constant dynamic shifts happening within industries and how to navigate through them. Beyond looking at what is happening in markets and with customers, we delve deep to understand why and the cause-and-effect relationships. Related ArticlesFAQ’s  /  FAQ’s Q: What is a typical day at Stax like? A: There is really no “typical” day at Stax. Since our projects change so quickly and we work on so many different industries, the research and analysis you do from day to day will be very different.   Q: How intense is the travel schedule? A: There is less travel required for Stax’s engagements than at many other consulting firms. We have frequent check-ins with our clients, but we carry out our research independently and not at client sites. There may be some travel required for kick-off meetings and deliverable presentation.   Q: What sort of benefits does Stax offer? A: Stax provides comprehensive medical, dental, and vision coverage for you and your family, 401(k), paid time off, life insurance and disability insurance, generous parental leave, wellness benefits, and much more.   Q: Does Stax look for a certain kind of qualification in job applicants? A: While we require specialist knowledge for some positions — such as that of Data Analyst — we are chiefly looking for sound critical thinking and problem-solving abilities. Good old-fashioned common sense, attention to detail, and curiosity are the best qualifications for the work we do.   Q: What are the opportunities to move up within Stax? A: There are excellent opportunities for career advancement within Stax for those who show flair and dedication. We’ve had people initially hired as part-time contractors move up to become managers within 3-4 years.   Q: Are transfers between offices and teams possible? Yes, given the right circumstances and qualifications.   Q: Will I have the opportunity to work on international projects? A: Yes. Approximately 40% of Stax’s work for U.S. clients has a sizeable international component, and about 25% of our revenue comes from projects that are completely outside the U.S.Winning Share in Large Health-Care Contracts STAX INC  |   Apr. 13 2016 If your team is only responding to Requests for Proposals (RFPs) when they hit the wires, you know three things: 1) you’re only seeing a fraction of the available opportunities, because so many opportunities never get to RFP; 2) even when you bid you’re likely already behind competitors who were in early; and 3) there must be a better way. Your team has hunches, hypotheses, and experience about what triggers an RFP — and you have data on wins and losses. But you need additional elements to act more effectively: information and an early warning of RFP triggers; and a process to gain access where and when the need arises, before it becomes common knowledge. You can use that extra time from this early warning system to triage the customer need and know exactly how to position your sales message. A Roadmap to Focus Resources Whether you’re the CEO or sales lead, you know that a reliable predictor of customer needs would allow your team to win more share with the same resources; and accelerate growth, profit, and returns. A framework for understanding customer targeting, timing, and messaging can give your teams the roadmap they need to focus more effectively. Before the RFP With the increasing availability of publicly available information, potential customers are far smarter in their pre-bid research. These potential customers can easily find information about competitive products and identify prior customers to seek out advice. For major purchases, customers may hire consultants to structure and manage the RFP process, increasing the cost to bidders and reducing the winner’s margin. Defining Your Metrics How do you get a head start? Most organizations focus on  win rate . However, by focusing only on win rate, you miss upstream opportunities. Sometimes the best path to increasing total revenue requires focusing on a broader set of opportunities.  Participation rate  and  inclusion in non-competitive situations  are usually as important as win rate. These require different sets of capabilities and information. You must be able to answer an additional set of questions. How many decisions are made each year without competitive processes? How many competitive processes are run with the intent of price-pressuring the incumbent but not making a change? How many with the intent of making a change? How can you know the difference? Right Place, Right Time It is impossible to maintain ongoing conversations with every potential customer to get wind of a business need that may ultimately lead to an RFP. With long-term customers, you may have an experienced coverage person who does both development and delivery, which gives you the inside track. But that’s one person rather than a system or framework you can deploy across the organization. And in most organizations the development and delivery functions are separate. Therefore, the odds of being consistently in the right place at the right time are extremely low. Our client work — and our experience with the CTTM Framework — demonstrates that you can improve your odds by combining better use of data, research, market observations, and direct market feedback through the voice of the customer. Information from multiple sources — what some would call big data — can be integrated in a dashboard that helps direct sales and development resources most efficiently. And the same research and analytical process that directs resource deployment also guides positioning to best match customer needs. When your team knows where to go and what they need to be successful for each customer segment, the whole organization is more productive, better rewarded for its efforts, and happier. Reading the Signals Through the CTTM Framework A good customer targeting, timing, and messaging (CTTM) framework starts with the premise that a lot of information brought together in the right way can be additive to the instincts of your top business-development professionals. Success requires a deep dive into the data to look closely at specific behaviors and markers of needs. The approach is generally broken down into four stages. Study the market landscape  to understand the picture dynamics and trends in the market. Conduct an outside-in competitive assessment  to know who your competitors are, where they are winning and why, and how you position yourself and your staff relative to the rest of the industry. How do others see you and them? Mine insights from your sales team , as your people have important insights. A carefully structured set of metrics for your sales people and win-loss analysis tells you about their and their customers’ behavior. When do they ask for business? When does the company win and lose? Why? Listen to the voice of the customer  through interviews with current, former, and potential customers to identify decision triggers. Once armed with all of the data, apply analysis to identify recurring tendencies and patterns that suggest new needs or upcoming change. One obvious example is organization or leadership change, which often signals pending opportunities at both the departing leader’s organization and the new one. Another may be frequency and timing indicators. For instance, some customers only buy every other year. Once you’ve identified the last time they bought, you know their likely future decision point as well. This type of information is often resident in the sales force, but is not captured or used in an effective way to coordinate marketing, or inside and outside sales actions. Comprehensive Set of Indicators There can be many others, some intuitive and others counterintuitive, some that have causation, and some that are merely correlation. We don’t care what causes the signal — as long as we’ve set up a way to listen for it and have the inside track on the timing and customer need. By developing a comprehensive set of indicators to monitor, you can systematically spot needs. You know how to position for a better chance of winning. Stax Success Stories Stax success stories illustrate the approach and results from the CTTM Framework. We have seen this framework work across a range of industries — from financial services and technology to business services and industrial equipment sales. In one healthcare example, our client was not seeing desired growth relative to the industry. A brief set of discussions with their team got everyone on board with the Fast Framework process, which included working with Stax to quickly analyze the market, win-loss data, competition, and the voice of the customer. Together we found that the true market opportunity was larger than previously quantified, and this analysis isolated a number of triggers that typically presaged a purchase decision. This created a wider funnel of opportunities. Stax quantified the complete number of decisions made in a given year, categorizing each by the nature of the decision (for example, non-competitive changes versus leveraging existing supplier processes). Next, we developed a deeper understanding of the competition: how they performed in competitive bid situations and where they won. This enabled us to advise the client on how to qualify needs by customer and to position services in a way that had better odds of winning the day. Collectively this helped the client reposition itself in terms of sales force allocation, marketing, and brand positioning, including price and features. Within 15 months of the start of Stax’s 3-month engagement, this client had doubled their close rate, adding $70M per year in revenue and an additional 10% in equity value. Providing Clear Direction Use of the CTTM Framework usually requires about 12 weeks to provide clear action plans to boost growth quickly. Client teams are typically either receptive right out of the gate or quickly become so, appreciating management’s effort investment and focus. The benefits are felt across entire organizations. CEOs and CFOs know how many people to allocate to various efforts. CMOs know what messaging and marketing elements to develop. Sales people get valuable insight into how and whom to target, and what questions to ask to effectively qualify a lead well ahead of time. And equity holders love the short-term ROI. While this framework requires sophisticated analytics and data integration, it really is an exercise in common sense: better allocating efforts and resources by boiling data down to practical information. Our experience suggests that by using this framework, it is possible to get that all-important head start and the results quickly pay for themselves. , Stax Inc. Rafi Musher is the founder and CEO of Stax Inc. , Stax Inc. Mark Bremer is the President of Stax Inc. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Our Approach We start with the big idea We start by identifying market pain points, drawing on insights from regular conversations Stax’s consulting arm has with company CEOs and their customers. Once we’ve defined a suitable need, we work collaboratively with potential partners and industry experts to identify a testable and proven model to fill it. Only then do we begin to structure the venture and recruit the best talent to build it. We know what it takes to succeed Stax consulting has 20 years’ experience working with clients to launch new businesses, observing firsthand what it takes to be successful, and seeing many different business models across industries. Along the way, we’ve built long-term relationships with managers of large pools of capital that give us extra opportunity to bring institutional partners to larger investments, and to draw on their industry knowledge and contacts. This access can cut years off the typical business-development cycle for a new venture. We know how to make a difference Stax as an organization has always adhered to the principle of “doing well by doing good.” Not only has it supported many charitable causes over the years, it has provided millions of dollars in pro-bono work on a wide variety of social needs, including think-tank work, participating in Milken Institute Financial Innovations Labs, and other efforts. Stax has seen firsthand how government and the philanthropic community are seeking better models to leverage their capital. This is why Stax DevCorp launched SVP, its portfolio focused on innovative social ventures that also seeks to achieve measurable progress in addressing or improving key societal challenges. These businesses will employ for-profit models rather than traditional charity structures to accomplish their objectives, because we believe strongly that investing in for-profit solutions for social benefit is like investing in annuities: they are self-perpetuating, establishing a foundation for the ventures to keep funding their own good work.Trends Impacting Investment in Oil & Gas Software:  How Falling Oil Prices and Shifting Operating Procedures are Impacting Investment in Oil & Gas Software STAX INC  |   Aug. 4 2017 From extraction, to processing, to transportation, the Oil & Gas supply chain is arguably the most complex of any industry. It is challenging for anyone to understand the complex interlinking of infrastructure, equipment, and processes required to bring the mission-critical energy resource into our homes. The same goes for Oil & Gas technology. Historically, the industry has not been on the leading edge of technology, especially for one that relies so heavily on it. However, the recent plunge in oil prices caused all players not only to rethink their standard operating procedures, but their use of technology as well. When oil prices were upwards of $100 per barrel and IT budgets were strong, decision makers would procure solutions without regard for their integration with other departments and systems. Spend on data and applications for their interpretation in support of new drilling and exploration was significant. Further, in the race to become the first truly end-to-end Oil & Gas software solution, entrenched vendors like Haliburton, Schlumberger, Weatherford, Baker Hughes, and IHS focused on expanding their offerings through acquisition.   Meanwhile, widespread challenges facing users such as the lack of intuitiveness and archaic feel of these “cobbled-together” products went unaddressed, resulting in patchwork offerings with inconsistent integration. This also compounded problems around disparate sources for the same data — an issue that for years has plagued operators through unsuccessful attempts to build a master data repository to store and distribute “one version of the truth” for key production metrics. This increased importance of technology in the space has positive implications for outside investment. As prices flatten and rig counts begin to normalize, there is little movement in employment — operators are relying on technology more heavily now than ever before, enabling them to operate with a lower headcount. Investors should closely monitor the race to comprehensiveness — the first vendor to offer a fully-integrated solution will surely spur significant interest from operators of all sizes. Further, there may be a need for operating expertise and funding, as we believe this vendor will likely be a new player with a fresh, technologically-innovative approach, versus an inorganic amalgamation of unrelated point-specific solutions. Today’s Software Environment Traditionally, operators and outside investors primarily focused on drilling and exploration. But when the price of oil began to fall precipitously in the summer of 2014 and continued its descent over the next 18 months reaching levels not seen for nearly a decade and a half, operators were forced to freeze capital expenditures and optimize production from existing wells to remain solvent. This created a shift in focus from drilling more to drilling smarter, and caused operators to rethink their use of software. More than ever operators need to improve and optimize how they effectively collect, monitor, and forecast production data. While the broad Oil & Gas market is large and complex, profitability for upstream companies is simple: how much does a well produce each month, and how much does it costs to operate? Until prices are no longer suppressed due to persisting oversupply concerns and return to pre-crash levels, operators will continue the deprioritization of new drilling activity and focus on profitably squeezing all that they can from existing wells for the foreseeable future. As of today, multiple software solutions are used to enable the flow of production data from the oilfield all the way up to the C-Suite. To inform prospective or current investors in the space, we have defined the Oil & Gas Production Software Ecosystem across five primary categories: Field Operations, Control Room, Corporate, Back Office, and Downstream. Exhibit 3: Oil & Gas Production Software Ecosystem The number of wells owned and operated by an upstream firm has implications for its technology focuses today and going forward. Today, about 85 percent of US upstream firms own/operate between 15 and 200 wells. The small firm count has trended downward since the 2014 price crash, as many were driven into bankruptcy. Prior to 2014, small firm counts had grown by as much as 12 percent year-over-year. If or when prices normalize, the long tail of small firms can be expected to get even longer. For many of these small firms, products offered by the entrenched vendors previously mentioned are often too robust. Many of their additional modules are viewed as superfluous, unintuitive, and far too expensive. Less sophisticated operators prefer light, easy-to-use products that serve their specific needs. As legacy products mature and low-end operators rethink their IT strategies, there are opportunities for simple, low cost providers to win share. A multitude of new software offerings has emerged across all categories of the Ecosystem, engaging smaller firms with fresh approaches to existing challenges, lower price tags, and cloud-hosting, leading to significantly easier and cheaper implementation and maintenance. Within the Control Room, current vendor dynamics in Wellsite Monitoring is representative of how low-end displacement is occurring among small operators. The preeminent vendors in Wellsite Monitoring are Weatherford, Cameron, and Halliburton. These providers traditionally cater to large customers by building out massive SCADA networks to distribute production data from the well. In the past only large firms could afford the full offering which included hardware for use at the wellsite, telemetry-based SCADA networks, and service contracts exceeding seven-figures. Cloud-based platforms — through partnerships with leading hardware and network providers — have emerged enabling small operators to capture and monitor production data at the wellhead, as opposed to slower, resource-intensive methods like pad and paper or mobile field data capture. Bottom line, Wellsite Monitoring solutions are not only for large operators anymore. As the growing small segment becomes more addressable, emerging vendors in the space are ripe for the picking. This is one of many examples where large incumbents currently are not able to serve the entirety of the Oil & Gas market. This leads to the question, “How will these entrenched incumbents behave?” Will they start to acquire and roll-up smaller offerings? Will they create their own competing offerings? Or, will they allow smaller providers to penetrate the low-end market, so long as they do not encroach on core major and large independent customers? Based on the volume of strategic roll-ups by entrenched vendors in the past, this continued behavior should be expected. Indeed, prospective investors with a limited footprint in the space will face some competitive headwinds. Looking Ahead In summary, there are a few things investors can be certain of moving forward: Since the price crash, technology has become a critical lever for profitability; as prices remain suppressed, technology strategy will continue to be a C-suite consideration for operators of all sizes. Operator budgets will prioritize software that optimizes production and profitability over drilling and exploration solutions. Across each category of the Oil & Gas Production Software Ecosystem, opportunities are being created as more small operators come online and solutions become more broadly addressable. There will be disruption of the larger incumbents by smaller low-end software players. Capturing new customers and disrupting larger vendors could lead to some consolidation or creation of competing low-end offerings. Investors should keep these key trends top of mind when evaluating potential opportunities and must move fast, as the M&A landscape will be competitive. The solutions that are aligned to market trends and address prevalent user pain points will be attractive roll-ups to both incumbent vendors and outside investors alike. , Stax Inc. Griffin Weiler is a Senior Associate at Stax Inc. , Stax Inc. Joe Cicero is a Consultant at Stax Inc. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Palash Misra  / 
					 Palash Misra Director Boston In the news Palash Misra is a Director at Stax Inc. He has extensive experience, on a global and domestic level, in corporate and strategy consulting roles, with a strong background in both strategic synthesis and implementation. At Stax, Misra leads a variety of business consulting projects in M&A, market assessments, market prioritization, growth opportunities, and competitive strategy engagements. His expertise spans multiple industries with a focus on HR technology, healthcare, and retail, and guided clients through the tech era. Misra first joined Stax in 1999, during which time he worked on M&A and corporate growth assignments. His work spanned multiple industries, enabling him to develop expertise across many of the same segments he focuses on today. He rejoined the firm after seven years at Monster Wolrdwide, where he served as Director of Corporate Strategy and Development. While at Monster, Misra developed international market prioritization and entry strategies. He also identified, assessed, and executed strategic investments and acquisitions designed to boost Monster’s international audience and expand growth across markets. Within key markets, Misra evaluated the company’s business unit performance, focusing on analyzing market trends, identifying growth opportunities, and developing customer and competitive strategies to increase business unit profitability. Misra is the author of one of the first-ever research reports on the internet incubation industry, and received citations from National Public Radio and The Wall Street Journal. He previously worked at Capgemini. Misra holds an M.B.A. with Honors from the Wharton School of Business & Finance at the University of Pennsylvania, and a B.A. in Economics from Bowdoin College, where he graduated summa cum laude. Related ArticlesTricia Dupilka  / 
					 Tricia Dupilka Director of Talent Development Chicago Tricia Dupilka is Director of Talent Development at Stax where she is charged with creating and enhancing a workplace environment and culture where people are able to do maximize their potential and do their best work. Dupilka brings more than 20 years of internal, external and technology HR experience in a variety of organizations and industries. She has delivered projects across Canada and the U.S. as well as in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. At Stax, Dupilka is committed to ensuring every employee has career and development coaching, development opportunities and ongoing feedback. Prior to joining Stax, Dupilka served as President at Duplika & Associates, where she worked with organizations to improve talent management, leadership effectiveness, and consulting operations. Dupilka was a founding and managing Partner at ThinkWise Consulting and prior to that Director of the Talent Solutions practice at BPI group. Earlier in her career, Dupilka also served as Vice President of Consulting & Services for HRIZONS, a talent management and human capital consulting firm. Dupilka holds a bachelor’s degree in commerce from the University of Alberta and a master’s of business administration from the University of Calgary, where she wrote her thesis on knowledge transfer between organizations.Category: INDUSTRY INSIGHTS According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles. From extraction, to processing, to transportation, the Oil & Gas supply chain is arguably the most complex of any industry. It is challenging for anyone to understand the complex interlinking of infrastructure, equipment, and processes required to bring the mission-critical energy resource into our homes. The same goes for Oil & Gas technology.  Stax Director Palash Misra recently shared insights with NBC News on why millennial shoppers are flocking to discount and off-price retailers and how these stores are capitalizing on millennials’ needs. From smart cars that are able to drive and park themselves, intelligent thermostats that detect your arrival and turn up the heat, to smart clothing that can track the amount of calories burnt — these are all part of the latest gadgets-gone-gaga trend: the Internet of Things (IoT). Technology is fundamentally changing behavior and power dynamics across the agriculture value chain. Investors in agriculture should look both at how technology is being used to drive value within their own segment of the value chain and at how available technology is driving change across the industry. Executives and investors may be quick to forget, but shoppers are not, and that could impact retailers’ profit and share price. Despite being relatively young, Sri Lanka’s tech startup ecosystem has witnessed tremendous growth over the past few years. Home to world-class human capital, an envious geographical location, an increasingly favorable business climate, and relatively superior infrastructure to other countries in the region, Sri Lanka is well poised to become a thriving startup hub. Speaking with BizReport, Palash Misra discusses trends and the cause of growth in the marketing technology space. In Sri Lanka’s evolving startup space, collective success is predicated on realizing this market rewards novelty, action & differentiation. Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Palash Misra crafted an article on how to utilize social insights to fully understand a company’s position in the marketplace and what it needs to do in order to best operate the business. While gasoline prices remain low, there is still tremendous opportunity for a cleaner environment and more domestic value creation in EVs. And there is tremendous profit opportunities for utility CEOs to generate more profits in a growth constrained environment.  Stax CEO Rafi Musher and Director Brett Conradt write about the use of technology in the trucking industry for Fleet Maintenance.Category: INDUSTRY INSIGHTS Earlier this week, Mary Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley internet analyst and current partner at venture-capital fund Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, released her annual Internet Trends Report. While it’s definitely a voluminous report and well worth the read, there were two key takeaways to highlight. Looking at the changes in personal accountability within an organization — the changing needs of specific customer — is just as important as understanding the theoretical needs of the corporation. Jeremy Wall, Director at Stax, writes in Healthcare Informatics, on how the cyber threat environment should create significant opportunity for managed security service providers (MSSPs) and security providers willing to take the plunge into the complicated world of healthcare. 2016 has gotten off to a slow start for dealmakers. The first quarter of the year saw private equity deals overall drop by 30% year-to-date according to PitchBook. While higher valuations have been attributed to driving the volume of deals — specifically in technology — down, that does not mean that competition has slowed. At Stax, we like wine, we like data, and we like identifying value. There’s a little history here — Stax’s first commercial office in 1997 (after moving out of Rafi’s basement) was above Libby’s liquor store in Central Square, Cambridge. Champagne and sparkling wines have long been considered a staple of celebratory occasions and a great gift on those occasions. For some people this creates a chance to wheel out their expertise and for others it creates angst, wondering what tastes best and what will make the right impression. Unfortunately, we’ve been trained to think about quality in terms of price, deciding based largely on “what’s the right amount to spend?” While this framework requires sophisticated analytics and data integration, it really is an exercise in common sense: better allocating efforts and resources by boiling data down to practical information. Our experience suggests that by using this framework, it is possible to get that all-important head start and the results quickly pay for themselves. The flow of patients across borders in pursuit of health and wellness is an age-old phenomenon. From the ancient Greeks who journeyed to Epidauria seeking the healing deity Asclepius to modern healthcare consumers with their calibrated itineraries combining both medical treatment and leisure, medical tourism has been a feature of the ages. The industry has, however, gained special traction in the 21st century. Today, ever increasing numbers travel internationally for medical treatment, driven by the promise of quality care at an affordable price. Based on our deep understanding of and passion for education, Stax decided to take action to begin creating a knowledge base to inform school leaders and spur action, so more e-reader programs will be implemented. Historically, per capita healthcare spend by Asian countries has been minuscule compared to that of mega-spenders like the U.S. or Norway. However, with an aging population, rising affluence, and demand for better health services in Asia, healthcare expenditure growth in the APAC region is set to outstrip North America’s.Tag: Education Based on our deep understanding of and passion for education, Stax decided to take action to begin creating a knowledge base to inform school leaders and spur action, so more e-reader programs will be implemented.Expert Analysis:  Retail Shopping and Millennials STAX INC  |   Jun. 21 2017 Stax Director   recently shared insights with NBC News on why millennial shoppers are flocking to discount and off-price retailers and how these stores are capitalizing on millennials’ needs: “Millennials are cost-conscious by nature,” said Misra. “Joining the labor force during and after the recession has heightened their frugality, and off-price retailers have been able to tap into that consumer need and outperform other retail categories.” “Off-price retailers are able to deliver shopping experiences that provide more of a treasure hunt than a traditional shopping trip to a department store,” said Misra. You can read the  . MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.CEOs Want to Know “What Just Happened?” STAX INC  |   May. 3 2016 This is a question that management teams are asking more frequently. As information systems proliferate, senior managers have greater visibility into changes occurring within the business, and that visibility is becoming more timely. Instead of waiting for backward-looking quarterly reporting, management sees and feels changes in near real-time. Examples include decelerating growth in an important division or product or customer segment, or spikes in customer churn, or declines in win rates, or unexpected growth in a segment. The problem is much of this incoming information is noise, and often there is little translation to better management decisions. The missing element is understanding  why  the change occurred, and what can be done to either mitigate or accelerate the change. Sure, there are usually plenty of theories, often conflicting, amongst the management team, with most support anecdotal. But there is seldom a definitive answer, much less an ability to communicate with the broader team and take action. There is a solution. In our experience working with hundreds of management teams across a range of “what just happened” situations, we’ve identified a set of common principles that successful management teams and advisors follow to drive value by understanding why what just happened, happened. When leadership can understand and explain the sources of change to the company and to investors, the odds of effective action increase dramatically. Prioritize by Value Usually, there is a not a single point of responsibility for prioritizing the issues and understanding the relative value of mitigating or accelerating the changes observed. What’s important is that there is a focus on quantified value and clear responsibility for making this happen. We’ve seen that responsibility successfully resident in differing functions, there is not one answer. Often it is finance, marketing, or strategic planning, but not always. Identify the individual or organization or outside partner that has the capability to rapidly assess the potential value of observed change. Then put changes into three categories: those with highest potential value that need to be understood and acted upon quickly, those with lower potential value that bear continued observation, and those that can be de-prioritized. Be disciplined about asking yourself and your team what it is worth to answer a particular question, and prioritize accordingly. Integrate streams of information Often many of the building blocks of understanding exist within the organization already, but they have not been integrated into a coherent perspective. Comparing multiple sources of information is almost always more insightful than reliance on a single source. Multiple sources often provide for derived insights. While there might be an apparently definitive industry report or expert that is on point for explaining the observed trend, there is value in triangulating and pressure testing. Source integration can be done outside of current company systems, and often must be done in this way, with multiple systems that do not allow ready linking and integration. Be creative in sourcing information New sources of information and insight emerge all the time, even in mature industries. The standard sources of industry insight are always valuable to understand, if for no other reason than to understand the conventional wisdom. However, the answer to “what just happened” is often found outside the usual sources, because by definition the question arises from something unexpected, something often running counter to conventional wisdom. We’ve seen multiple examples of emerging sources that provide new insights, from social media data aggregation, to unstructured data (mining of service notes and comments for example), to more easily accessible public government source data (availability of IRS benefits filings for example) to purchased data aggregations. And finally, direct, proprietary, primary research often provides information that simply can’t be had anywhere else. And primary research (customer telephone or online or in-person interviews for example), has become faster and more efficient than ever before, if correctly designed and staged. Often it’s the incremental insight from additional and creatively sourced information that makes all the difference in understanding. Design the process for multiple, rapid cycles In general, faster and more incremental is better. A process for understanding change that is built on a series of defined and rapid steps, with incremental course correction and adjustment, will produce better insights faster than ever before, and more efficiently than a highly centralized, top-down, ponderous, long-term strategy project. Unfortunately, this does not align with the business model or desires of many advisors, who live and profit off of a long-term, ponderous approach. That is not to say your process shouldn’t be strategic. It should be strategic and efficient: focused on what is highest value, driving to a prioritized set of actions based on real understanding, and having the flexibility to adjust to unforeseen changes. Be comfortable with uncertainty Related to the idea of incremental and repeated insight generation is the concept of comfort with uncertainty. While there is an answer to “what just happened” and more importantly why did it happen, insight into both of those questions is at best imperfect. The best outcome is informed decision making through a fact-based understanding of risks and returns. You must evaluate the confidence level of each element of understanding, and weigh the risks and alternatives of each implied action. This is another reason that the incremental and iterative approach works best. Force your team and your advisors to come to conclusions relatively quickly, and force them to evaluate the level of confidence around those conclusions, and then determine whether additional study is warranted, and at what point the returns to additional study are not justified. That is the point at which you must act. And then equally critically, you must measure the results of your action and adjust accordingly. This is the role of leadership. Companies that master this process reap multiple benefits. Most important is better performance as measured by profitable growth. But also important is an ongoing, and nuanced understanding of the business, and of the risks and rewards of action within a particular space. With time, the decision of study v. act becomes faster and easier to make, and drives additional control and even enjoyment in decision making and management of the business. When deep understanding of the why underpins communication to the broader team and to investors, the effectiveness of leadership is significantly enhanced. , Stax Inc. Mark Bremer is the President of Stax, where he heads consulting business and serves as the Managing Director of Stax’s Chicago office. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Opportunities You’ll Get From Consulting STAX INC  |   Jun. 8 2017 Bicycles, paddle boards, kayaks, hot tubs,…IPAs, and candy —  just not at the same time . Some days, your consulting work is more related to the things you have at home — or would like to have at home — than others. For  , Managing Director in Stax’s consulting practice, working in consumer and retail is an area of interest and expertise. “Stax started looking at the craft beer space about six years ago, and it’s been fascinating to see how it’s grown during this time,” Conradt says. “We’ve been looking at it from both a brewer and supplier perspective. It’s been interesting to follow the ‘re’-evolution of an industry and shifting consumer preferences, and then apply that knowledge to tackle classic business dynamics of a rapidly growing market. Plus, being invited to tastings at different breweries happens to be a nice bonus.” “While I love the consumer and retail space, my focus is on solving business problems and identifying opportunities for growth, across industry sectors, through data and market knowledge,” says Conradt. “It doesn’t matter what the end industry is — healthcare, information technology, industrials, or consumer products — you have to start with the data.” Having joined the firm in 2006 as a Consultant, Brett credits Stax with giving him opportunities to pursue engagements and clients aligned with his interests, and to start developing direct client relationships early on in his career. The access and opportunities allowed him stretch and learn — which wasn’t always easy — but provided the best learning and paid dividends in the long run. He encourages the newer members of the team to identify what they’re passionate about and how they can push themselves and Stax’s efforts forward in those areas. “If you find yourself with a desire to read through potential changes to the ACA on the train in the morning, you may want to spend more of your time in our healthcare vertical. But regardless of the end industry, your core passions also need to include helping clients make good decisions and grow their businesses.” With social responsibility being a shared value at Stax, Brett has also been able to bring resources to the community. He leads the Stax relationship with the Illinois Consulting Academy at the University of Illinois, helping students to prepare and ready themselves for careers in consulting. Brett and his family also support a number of local community organizations, and he regularly encourages colleagues to get out and get involved. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.Tag: Life At Stax Bicycles, paddle boards, kayaks, hot tubs,…IPAs, and candy — just not at the same time. Some days, your consulting work is more related to the things you have at home — or would like to have at home — than others.  More than 15 years later, this executive’s first real job continues to have an impact. Working at Stax helped Amanda uncover her passion for healthcare and ultimately pursue a Masters of Public Health and now PhD from the Yale School of Public Health. Moving from startups to consulting, Anna discovered Stax would provide her with exactly with what she was seeking in a career. Now pursuing her MBA at Wharton, Amanda can pinpoint exactly how Stax set her up for the next chapter. At Stax, we’re always looking for great talent to add to our already impressive team. Currently, we’re recruiting associates, consultants and managers to continue growing our Boston and Chicago officesStax Alumni Stories:  Amanda Tripp STAX INC  |   Aug. 25 2016 What do consulting and a dissertation have in common? A lot more than you might think. When   graduated from California State University, she moved to Chicago in search of a career that would be both intellectually challenging and stimulating. Luckily, Amanda’s brother-in-law had worked with Stax in the past and connected Amanda to the local office, creating an invaluable professional  and  personal experience. Working at Stax helped Amanda uncover her passion for healthcare and ultimately pursue a Masters of Public Health and now PhD from the Yale School of Public Health. A Structured Approach to Different Industries During her time at Stax, Amanda was introduced to a number of different industries ranging from financial services to agriculture. While each presented its own unique challenges, Amanda quickly learned a structured approached and process to her work that could be utilized across all sectors. Amanda also developed the ability to find innovative solutions that had an immediate impact and addressed the business needs of clients, regardless of sector. With the skills she acquired and the opportunity to work on projects from various industries, Amanda developed a passion for healthcare and alternative financial services, guiding her to her current aim: meaningful work in healthcare public policy. And through her work at Stax, she developed deep insights to these industries with a great deal of overlapping, that would inform her graduate work and leading publication efforts. Learn from a Mentor By working at a more tight knit organization like Stax, Amanda was able to work directly with leaders at the firm, like Mark Bremer. Mark, who is President of Stax, guided Amanda during her tenure at Stax. She was impressed by his ability to analyze and understand issues before they even became evident noting that if work was like chess a board, “Mark saw ten moves ahead of you at all the times.” Manage Projects and Think Creatively Above all, consulting enhanced Amanda’s critical thinking skills. She is the first to admit that preparing a dissertation can be a lonely journey and daunting task. A typical first reaction is to be overwhelmed by the enormity of it all. However, prior pursuing her PhD Amanda was already used to structuring, guiding and completing a massive amount of research — granted with a full team — in only a few weeks and then defending the results to experts in the field (clients). Through working and learning at Stax, Amanda had a head start on industry knowledge and technical analytical skills, helping her circumvent, and in some cases speed by a lot of the typical roadblocks that many find when going for their PhD. Interested in learning more about opportunities at Stax?   to see our current opening. MORE FROM STAX INC Sri Lanka is shaping up to be relevant to a global digital economy. Earlier this year, the Government unveiled its According to research at Stax, with decrease in fuel prices thanks to the plummeting of oil, about half of fleet owners are reinvesting in their fleets and of those, about 40 percent plan to upgrade the equipment on their vehicles.